## feed : "(abs:JWST OR abs:James Webb) AND (cat:astro-ph.GA OR cat:astro-ph.CO)" N=64
### Updated Sat Oct 19 21:31:34 2024

### 1) [2410.13254](http://arxiv.org/abs/2410.13254v1): Lyman Continuum leakage from massive leaky starbursts: A different class   of emitters?

<p> Namrata Roy, Timothy Heckman, Alaina Henry, John Chisholm, Sophia Flury, Claus Leitherer, Matthew J. Hayes, Anne Jaskot, Zhiyuan Ji, Daniel Schaerer, Bingjie Wang, Sanchayeeta Borthakur, Xinfeng Xu, Göran Östlin </p>
<p>
The origin of Lyman Continuum (LyC) photons responsible for reionizing the universe remains a mystery, with the fraction of escaping LyC photons from galaxies at z~ 6 to 12 being highly uncertain. While direct detection of LyC photons from this epoch is hindered by absorption from the intergalactic medium, lower redshift analogs offer a promising avenue to study LyC leakage. We present Hubble Space Telescope Cosmic Origins Spectrograph (HST COS) observations of five low redshift (z~ 0.3) massive starburst galaxies, selected for their high stellar mass and weak [SII] nebular emission - an indirect tracer of LyC escape. Three of the five galaxies show LyC leakage, highlighting the reliability of weak [SII] as a tracer, especially in light of recent JWST discoveries of z &gt; 5 galaxies with similarly weak [SII] emission. The dust corrected LyC escape fractions, which represent the LyC photons that would escape in the absence of dust, range from 33% to 84%. However, the absolute escape fractions, which show the LyC photons escaping after passing through both neutral hydrogen absorption and dust attenuation, are significantly lower, ranging between 1% and 3%. This suggests that while the galaxies are nearly optically thin to HI, their high dust content significantly suppresses LyC photon escape. These [SII] weak, massive leakers are distinct from typical low-redshift LyC emitters, showing higher metallicity, lower ionization states, more dust extinction and higher star formation surface densities. This suggests that these galaxies constitute a distinct population, likely governed by a different mechanism facilitating LyC photon escape. We propose that the feedback-driven winds in these compact starbursts create ionized channels through which LyC photons escape, aligning with a picket-fence model.
</p>
<p> <b> Published: </b> 2024-10-17T06:21:22Z </p>
<p> <b> Updated: </b> 2024-10-17T06:21:22Z </p>
<p> <b> Comments: </b> 16 pages, 10 figures, 1 Table </p>
<p> <b> PDF: </b> <a href="http://arxiv.org/pdf/2410.13254v1"> http://arxiv.org/pdf/2410.13254v1 </a> </p>

### 2) [2410.12987](http://arxiv.org/abs/2410.12987v1): Galaxy Mass Modelling from Multi-Wavelength JWST Strong Lens Analysis:   Dark Matter Substructure, Angular Mass Complexity, or Both?

<p> Samuel C. Lange, Aristeidis Amvrosiadis, James W. Nightingale, Qiuhan He, Carlos S. Frenk, Andrew Robertson, Shaun Cole, Richard Massey, Xiaoyue Cao, Ran Li, Kaihao Wang </p>
<p>
We analyze two galaxy-scale strong gravitational lenses, SPT0418-47 and SPT2147-50, using JWST NIRCam imaging across multiple filters. To account for angular complexity in the lens mass distribution, we introduce multipole perturbations with orders m=1, 3, 4. Our results show strong evidence for angular mass complexity in SPT2147, with multipole strengths of 0.3-1.7 &percnt; for m=3, 4 and 2.4-9.5 &percnt; for m=1, while SPT0418 shows no such preference. We also test lens models that include a dark matter substructure, finding a strong preference for a substructure in SPT2147-50 with a Bayes factor (log-evidence change) of ~ 60 when multipoles are not included. Including multipoles reduces the Bayes factor to ~ 11, still corresponding to a 5\sigma detection of a subhalo with an NFW mass of \log_{10}(M_{200}/M_{\odot}) = 10.87\substack{+0.53\\ -0.71}. While SPT2147-50 may represent the fourth detection of a dark matter substructure in a strong lens, further analysis is needed to confirm that the signal is not due to systematics associated with the lens mass model.
</p>
<p> <b> Published: </b> 2024-10-16T19:32:47Z </p>
<p> <b> Updated: </b> 2024-10-16T19:32:47Z </p>
<p> <b> Comments: </b> 16 pages, 11 figures, submitted to MNRAS </p>
<p> <b> PDF: </b> <a href="http://arxiv.org/pdf/2410.12987v1"> http://arxiv.org/pdf/2410.12987v1 </a> </p>

### 3) [2410.12235](http://arxiv.org/abs/2410.12235v1): Infrared Spectra of Solid-State Ethanolamine: Laboratory Data in Support   of JWST Observations

<p> T. Suhasaria, S. M. Wee, R. Basalgète, S. A. Krasnokutski, C. Jäger, G. Perotti, Th. Henning </p>
<p>
Ethanolamine (NH_2CH_2CH_2OH, EA) has been identified in the gas phase of the ISM within molecular clouds. Although EA has not been directly observed in the molecular ice phase, a solid state formation mechanism has been proposed. However, the current literature lacks an estimation of the infrared band strengths of EA ices. We conducted an experimental investigation of solid EA ice at low temperatures to ascertain its infrared band strengths, phase transition temperature, and multilayer binding energy. The commonly used laser interferometry method was not applied. Infrared band strengths were determined using three distinct methods. The obtained lab spectrum of EA was compared with the publicly available MIRI MRS James Webb Space Telescope observations toward a low mass protostar. The phase transition temperature for EA ice falls within the range of 175 to 185 K. Among the discussed methods, the simple pressure gauge method provides a reasonable estimate of band strength. We derive a band strength value of about 1\times10^{-17} cm molecule^{-1} for the NH_2 bending mode in the EA molecules. Additionally, temperature-programmed desorption analysis yielded a multilayer desorption energy of 0.61\pm0.01 eV. By comparing the laboratory data documented in this study with the JWST spectrum of the low mass protostar IRAS 2A, an upper-limit for the EA ice abundances was derived.
</p>
<p> <b> Published: </b> 2024-10-16T04:53:26Z </p>
<p> <b> Updated: </b> 2024-10-16T04:53:26Z </p>
<p> <b> Comments: </b> 8 pages, 5 figures </p>
<p> <b> PDF: </b> <a href="http://arxiv.org/pdf/2410.12235v1"> http://arxiv.org/pdf/2410.12235v1 </a> </p>

### 4) [2410.12198](http://arxiv.org/abs/2410.12198v1): The Physical Origin of Extreme Emission Line Galaxies at High redshifts:   Strong {\sc [Oiii]} Emission Lines Produced by Obscured AGNs

<p> Chenghao Zhu, Yuichi Harikane, Masami Ouchi, Yoshiaki Ono, Masato Onodera, Shenli Tang, Yuki Isobe, Yoshiki Matsuoka, Toshihiro Kawaguchi, Hiroya Umeda, Kimihiko Nakajima, Yongming Liang, Yi Xu, Yechi Zhang, Dongsheng Sun, Kazuhiro Shimasaku, Jenny Greene, Kazushi Iwasawa, Kotaro Kohno, Tohru Nagao, Andreas Schulze, Takatoshi Shibuya, Miftahul Hilmi, Malte Schramm </p>
<p>
We present deep Subaru/FOCAS spectra for two extreme emission line galaxies (EELGs) at z~ 1 with strong {\sc[Oiii]}\lambda5007 emission lines, exhibiting equivalent widths (EWs) of 2905^{+946}_{-578} \AA\ and 2000^{+188}_{-159} \AA, comparable to those of EELGs at high redshifts that are now routinely identified with JWST spectroscopy. Adding a similarly large {\sc [Oiii]} EW (2508^{+1487}_{-689} \AA) EELG found at z~ 2 in the JWST CEERS survey to our sample, we explore for the physical origins of the large {\sc [Oiii]} EWs of these three galaxies with the Subaru spectra and various public data including JWST/NIRSpec, NIRCam, and MIRI data. While there are no clear signatures of AGN identified by the optical line diagnostics, we find that two out of two galaxies covered by the MIRI data show strong near-infrared excess in the spectral energy distributions (SEDs) indicating obscured AGN. Because none of the three galaxies show clear broad H\beta lines, the upper limits on the flux ratios of broad-H\beta to {\sc [Oiii]} lines are small, \lesssim 0.15 that are comparable with Seyfert 1.8-2.0 galaxies. We conduct \texttt{Cloudy} modeling with the stellar and AGN incident spectra, allowing a wide range of parameters including metallicities and ionization parameters. We find that the large {\sc [Oiii]} EWs are not self-consistently reproduced by the spectra of stars or unobscured AGN, but obscured AGN that efficiently produces O^{++} ionizing photons with weak nuclear and stellar continua that are consistent with the SED shapes.
</p>
<p> <b> Published: </b> 2024-10-16T03:43:49Z </p>
<p> <b> Updated: </b> 2024-10-16T03:43:49Z </p>
<p> <b> Comments: </b> submitted to ApJ </p>
<p> <b> PDF: </b> <a href="http://arxiv.org/pdf/2410.12198v1"> http://arxiv.org/pdf/2410.12198v1 </a> </p>

### 5) [2410.12103](http://arxiv.org/abs/2410.12103v1): Discovery of a 25 parsec-long precessing jet emanating from the old nova   GK Persei

<p> Michael M. Shara, Kenneth M. Lanzetta, James T. Garland, David Valls-Gabaud, Stefan Gromoll, Mikita Misiura, Frederick M. Walter, John K. Webb, Barrett Martin </p>
<p>
Classical nova eruptions result from thermonuclear-powered runaways in, and ejection of, the hydrogen-rich envelopes of white dwarf stars accreted from their close binary companions. Novae brighten to up to 1,000,000 solar luminosities, and recur thousands of times over their lifetimes spanning several billion years. Between eruptions, mass transfer from the donor star to the white dwarf proceeds via an accretion disk unless the white dwarf possesses a strong magnetic field which can partially or totally disrupt the disk. In that case, accretion is focussed by the white dwarf's magnetic field towards its magnetic poles. Optical spectroscopy and interferometric radio maps demonstrate the presence of bipolar jets, typically arcsec in angular size, and orders of magnitude smaller than one parsec in linear size, during the days to months after nova eruptions. These jets expel collimated matter from the white dwarfs in nova binary stars, but well-resolved images of them are lacking. Here we report the Condor telescope's detection of a hitherto unknown, highly resolved and braided jet, three degrees (at least 25 parsecs) in length. The jet originates at the white dwarf of the old nova GK Persei (nova Per 1901 CE). It precesses on a ~ 3600 yr timescale, and must be at least 7200 years old. Detected across four decades of wavelength, the jet's ultimate energy source is likely the strong accretion shocks near the white dwarf's magnetic poles.
</p>
<p> <b> Published: </b> 2024-10-15T22:59:42Z </p>
<p> <b> Updated: </b> 2024-10-15T22:59:42Z </p>
<p> <b> Comments: </b> 18 pages, 4 figures </p>
<p> <b> PDF: </b> <a href="http://arxiv.org/pdf/2410.12103v1"> http://arxiv.org/pdf/2410.12103v1 </a> </p>

### 6) [2410.11821](http://arxiv.org/abs/2410.11821v1): A First-look at Spatially-resolved Infrared Supernova Remnants in M33   with JWST

<p> Sumit K. Sarbadhicary, Erik Rosolowsky, Adam K. Leroy, Thomas G. Williams, Eric W. Koch, Joshua Peltonen, Adam Smercina, Julianne J. Dalcanton, Simon C. O. Glover, Margaret Lazzarini, Ryan Chown, Jennifer Donovan Meyer, Karin Sandstrom, Benjamin F. Williams, Elizabeth Tarantino </p>
<p>
We present the first spatially-resolved infrared images of supernova remnants (SNRs) in M33 with the unprecedented sensitivity and resolution of JWST. We analyze 43 SNRs in four JWST fields: two covering central and southern M33 with separate NIRCam (F335M, F444W) and MIRI (F560W, F2100W) observations, one ~5 kpc-long radial strip observed with MIRI F770W, and one covering the giant HII region NGC 604 with multiple NIRCam and MIRI broad/narrowband filters. Of the 21 SNRs in the MIRI field, we found three clear detections (i.e., identical infrared and \ha morphologies), and six partial-detections, implying a detection fraction of 43&percnt; in these bands. In contrast, only one SNR (out of 16) is detectable in the NIRCam field. One of the SNRs, L10-080, is a potential candidate for having freshly-formed ejecta dust, based on its size and centrally-concentrated 21 \mum emission. Two SNRs near NGC 604 have strong evidence of molecular (H_2) emission at 4.7 \mum, making them the farthest known SNRs with visible molecular shocks. Five SNRs have F770W observations, with the smaller younger objects showing tentative signs of emission, while the older, larger ones have voids. Multi-wavelength data indicate that the clearly-detected SNRs are also among the smallest, brightest at other wavelengths (\ha, radio and X-ray), have the broadest line widths (H\alpha FWHM~250-350 km/s), and the densest environments. No strong correlation with star-formation histories are seen, with the clearly-detected SNRs having both high-mass (~35 \Msun) and low-mass (\lesssim10 \Msun) progenitors.
</p>
<p> <b> Published: </b> 2024-10-15T17:49:07Z </p>
<p> <b> Updated: </b> 2024-10-15T17:49:07Z </p>
<p> <b> Comments: </b> 33 pages, 17 figures, 2 tables, submitted to ApJ </p>
<p> <b> PDF: </b> <a href="http://arxiv.org/pdf/2410.11821v1"> http://arxiv.org/pdf/2410.11821v1 </a> </p>

### 7) [2410.11808](http://arxiv.org/abs/2410.11808v1): The JWST Emission Line Survey (JELS): An untargeted search for H$α$   emission line galaxies at $z > 6$ and their physical properties

<p> C. A. Pirie, P. N. Best, K. J. Duncan, D. J. McLeod, R. K. Cochrane, M. Clausen, J. S. Dunlop, S. R. Flury, J. E. Geach, C. L. Hale, E. Ibar, R. Kondapally, Zefeng Li, J. Matthee, R. J. McLure, L. Ossa-Fuentes, A. L. Patrick, Ian Smail, D. Sobral, H. M. O. Stephenson, J. P. Stott, A. M. Swinbank </p>
<p>
We present the first results of the JWST Emission Line Survey (JELS). Utilising the first NIRCam narrow-band imaging at 4.7\mum, over 63 arcmin^{2} in the PRIMER/COSMOS field, we have identified 609 emission line galaxy candidates. From these, we robustly selected 35 H\alpha star-forming galaxies at z ~ 6.1, with H\alpha star-formation rates (\rm{SFR_{H\alpha}}) of ~0.9-15\ \rm{M_{\odot} yr^{-1}}. Combining our unique H\alpha sample with the exquisite panchromatic data in the field, we explore their physical properties and star-formation histories, and compare these to a broad-band selected sample at z~ 6 to offer vital new insight into the nature of high-redshift galaxies. UV-continuum slopes (\beta) are considerably redder for our H\alpha sample (\langle\beta\rangle~-1.92) compared to the broad-band sample (\langle\beta\rangle~-2.35). This is not due to dust attenuation as our H\alpha sample is relatively dust-poor (median A_V=0.23); instead, we argue that the reddened slopes could be due to nebular continuum. We compared \rm{SFR_{H\alpha}} and the UV-continuum-derived \rm{SFR_{UV}} to SED-fitted measurements averaged over canonical timescales of 10 and 100 Myr (\rm{SFR_{10}} and \rm{SFR_{100}}). We find an increase in recent SFR for our sample of H\alpha emitters, particularly at lower stellar masses (&lt;10^9 \rm{M_{\odot}}). We also find that \rm{SFR_{H\alpha}} strongly traces SFR averaged over 10 Myr timescales, whereas the UV-continuum over-predicts SFR on 100 Myr timescales at low stellar masses. These results point to our H\alpha sample undergoing `bursty' star formation. Our F356W z ~ 6 sample show a larger scatter in \rm{SFR_{10}/SFR_{100}} across all stellar masses, highlighting how narrow-band photometric selections of H\alpha emitters are key to quantifying the burstiness of star-formation activity.
</p>
<p> <b> Published: </b> 2024-10-15T17:35:19Z </p>
<p> <b> Updated: </b> 2024-10-15T17:35:19Z </p>
<p> <b> Comments: </b> Submitted to MRNAS; 27 pages, 19 figures. Accompanying data will be   publicly released upon acceptance of this manuscript </p>
<p> <b> PDF: </b> <a href="http://arxiv.org/pdf/2410.11808v1"> http://arxiv.org/pdf/2410.11808v1 </a> </p>

### 8) [2410.11680](http://arxiv.org/abs/2410.11680v1): Population synthesis and astrophysical inference for high-$z$ JWST   galaxies

<p> Trey Driskell, Ethan O. Nadler, Andrew Benson, Vera Gluscevic </p>
<p>
Observations of the high-z Universe from JWST have revealed a new population of bright, early galaxies. A robust statistical interpretation of this data requires fast forward models that account for uncertainties in galaxy evolution and incorporate observational systematic effects. We present a probabilistic framework for population synthesis of high-z galaxies and inference of their properties. Our framework is based on the semi-analytic galaxy-formation model Galacticus. To infer the astrophysical parameters governing high-z galaxy evolution, we analyze JWST data from the CEERS and NGDEEP surveys and calculate the likelihood of observing individual objects in apparent magnitude--redshift space, for z\geq8.5 galaxy candidates. We include observational selection effects due to limited survey volume and depth, as well as photometric redshift uncertainties. We recover the posterior probability distribution for parameters describing star formation and outflow rates. We place an upper limit on the star formation timescale of 500~\mathrm{Myr} at a disk velocity of 50~\mathrm{km\ s}^{-1}, and we infer a characteristic velocity at which the outflow mass-loading factor is ~ 1 of 150^{+280}_{-60}~\mathrm{km\ s}^{-1}, both at 95&percnt; confidence. Marginalizing over our astrophysical model, we find that galaxies in CEERS and NGDEEP data occupy halos with virial masses 10^{10\pm 0.5}~M_{\mathrm{\odot}} at 8.5\leq z\leq 12, at 95&percnt; confidence. The star formation timescale preferred by our fit is relatively short compared to typical values at lower redshifts, consistent with previous findings. The modeling and analysis framework presented here can enable systematic tests of high-z galaxies' dust content, initial mass functions, and star formation burstiness in the future.
</p>
<p> <b> Published: </b> 2024-10-15T15:18:46Z </p>
<p> <b> Updated: </b> 2024-10-15T15:18:46Z </p>
<p> <b> Comments: </b> 14 pages, 10 figures </p>
<p> <b> PDF: </b> <a href="http://arxiv.org/pdf/2410.11680v1"> http://arxiv.org/pdf/2410.11680v1 </a> </p>

### 9) [2410.11620](http://arxiv.org/abs/2410.11620v1): Exploring the effect of different cosmologies on the Epoch of   Reionization 21-cm signal with POLAR

<p> Anshuman Acharya, Qing-bo Ma, Sambit K. Giri, Benedetta Ciardi, Raghunath Ghara, Garrelt Mellema, Saleem Zaroubi, Ian Hothi, Ilian T. Iliev, Léon V. E. Koopmans, Michele Bianco </p>
<p>
A detection of the 21-cm signal power spectrum from the Epoch of Reionization is imminent, thanks to consistent advancements from telescopes such as LOFAR, MWA, and HERA, along with the development of SKA. In light of this progress, it is crucial to expand the parameter space of simulations used to infer astrophysical properties from this signal. In this work, we explore the role of cosmological parameters such as the Hubble constant H_0 and the matter clustering amplitude \sigma_8, whose values as provided by measurements at different redshifts are in tension. We run N-body simulations using GADGET-4, and post-process them with the reionization simulation code POLAR, that uses L-GALAXIES to include galaxy formation and evolution properties and GRIZZLY to execute 1-D radiative transfer of ionizing photons in the intergalactic medium (IGM). We compare our results with the latest JWST observations and explore which astrophysical properties for different cosmologies are necessary to match the observed UV luminosity functions at redshifts z = 10 and 9. Additionally, we explore the impact of these parameters on the observed 21-cm signal power spectrum, focusing on the redshifts within the range of LOFAR 21-cm signal observations (z \approx 8.5-10). Despite differences in cosmological and astrophysical parameters, the 21-cm power spectrum at these redshifts agrees with presently observed upper limits. This suggests the need for broader physical parameter spaces for inference modeling to account for all models that agree with observations. However, we also propose stronger constraining power by using a combination of galactic and IGM observables.
</p>
<p> <b> Published: </b> 2024-10-15T13:58:39Z </p>
<p> <b> Updated: </b> 2024-10-15T13:58:39Z </p>
<p> <b> Comments: </b> 16 pages, 8 figures, 2 tables. Submitted to the Monthly Notices of   the Royal Astronomical Society (MNRAS) </p>
<p> <b> PDF: </b> <a href="http://arxiv.org/pdf/2410.11620v1"> http://arxiv.org/pdf/2410.11620v1 </a> </p>

### 10) [2410.11174](http://arxiv.org/abs/2410.11174v1): Spider-Webb: JWST Near Infrared Camera resolved galaxy star formation   and nuclear activities in the Spiderweb protocluster at z=2.16

<p> Rhythm Shimakawa, Yusei Koyama, Tadayuki Kodama, Helmut Dannerbauer, J. M. Perez-Martinez, Huub J. A. Röttgering, Ichi Tanaka, Chiara D'Eugenio, Abdurrahman Naufal, Kazuki Daikuhara, Yuheng Zhang </p>
<p>
Near-infrared (NIR) emission is less affected by dust than UV and optical emission and is therefore useful for studying the properties of dust-obscured galaxies. Although rest-frame NIR observations of high-redshift galaxies have long been made using space telescopes, their structures were unresolved due to the lack of angular resolution. This letter reports the early results from the analysis of high-resolution Pa\beta imaging of the Spiderweb protocluster at z=2.16 with the JWST Near Infrared Camera. We investigate radial profiles of Pa\beta lines and rest-frame NIR continua from luminous H\alpha-emitting galaxies (HAEs) in the protocluster. Particularly, we compare those of 11 HAEs (N-HAEs) on the star-forming main sequence with those of 8 HAEs (X-HAEs) with X-ray AGNs. Resultant composite Pa\beta line images of N-HAEs indicate significant star formation in galactic disks. In contrast, X-HAEs are dominated by point source components rather than outer star formation, as inferred from our earlier work based on multi-wavelength SED fitting. Given their higher stellar potentials suggested from their rest-frame NIR images, the different characteristics may be driven by the impact of AGN feedback.
</p>
<p> <b> Published: </b> 2024-10-15T01:25:51Z </p>
<p> <b> Updated: </b> 2024-10-15T01:25:51Z </p>
<p> <b> Comments: </b> 6 pages, 6 figures; Accepted for publication in MNRAS Letters </p>
<p> <b> PDF: </b> <a href="http://arxiv.org/pdf/2410.11174v1"> http://arxiv.org/pdf/2410.11174v1 </a> </p>

### 11) [2410.11095](http://arxiv.org/abs/2410.11095v1): Unveiling two deeply embedded young protostars in the S68N Class 0   protostellar core with JWST/NIRSpec

<p> Valentin J. M. Le Gouellec, Ben W. P. Lew, Thomas P. Greene, Doug Johnstone, Antoine Gusdorf, Logan Francis, Curtis DeWitt, Michael Meyer, Łukasz Tychoniec, Ewine F. van Dishoeck, Mary Barsony, Klaus W. Hodapp, Massimo Robberto </p>
<p>
The near-infrared (NIR) emission of the youngest protostars still needs to be characterized to better understand the evolution of their accretion and ejection activity. We analyze James Webb Space Telescope NIRSpec 1.7 -- 5.3 \mum observations of two deeply embedded sources in the S68N protostellar core in Serpens. The North Central (NC) source exhibits a highly obscured spectrum (A_K ~ 4.8 mag) that is modeled with a pre-main-sequence photosphere and a hot disk component. The photospheric parameters are consistent with a young, low-mass photosphere, as suggested by the low surface gravity, log g of 1.94 \pm 0.15 cm s^{-2}. The hot disk suggests that accretion onto the central protostellar embryo is ongoing, although prototypical accretion-tracing emission lines HI are not detected. The South Central (SC) source, which is even more embedded (A_K ~ 8 mag; no continuum is detected shortward of 3.6 \mum) appears to be driving the large-scale S68N protostellar outflow, and launches a collimated hot molecular jet detected in \Ht and CO ro-vibrational lines. Shock modeling of the \Ht (ro)vibrational lines establishes that fast C-type shocks (\geq 30 km s^{-1}), with high pre-shock density (\geq 10^7 cm^{-3}), and strong magnetic field (b ~ 3--10, where B = b\,\times\,\sqrt{\textrm{n}_{\textrm{H}} (\textrm{cm}^{-3})}\,\mu\textrm{G}) best match the data. The bright CO fundamental line forest suggests energetic excitation, with the contribution of non-LTE effects, ie irradiation pumping. Detected OH and CH^{+} ro-vibrational lines support this hypothesis. These two Class 0 protostars seem to be in very young evolutionary stages and still have to acquire the bulk of their final stellar masses. These results demonstrate that JWST enables unprecedented diagnostics of these first stages of the protostellar evolutionary phase.
</p>
<p> <b> Published: </b> 2024-10-14T21:16:10Z </p>
<p> <b> Updated: </b> 2024-10-14T21:16:10Z </p>
<p> <b> Comments: </b>  </p>
<p> <b> PDF: </b> <a href="http://arxiv.org/pdf/2410.11095v1"> http://arxiv.org/pdf/2410.11095v1 </a> </p>

### 12) [2410.11035](http://arxiv.org/abs/2410.11035v2): GA-NIFS & EIGER: A merging quasar host at z=7 with an overmassive black   hole

<p> Madeline A. Marshall, Minghao Yue, Anna-Christina Eilers, Jan Scholtz, Michele Perna, Chris J. Willott, Roberto Maiolino, Hannah Übler, Santiago Arribas, Andrew J. Bunker, Stephane Charlot, Bruno Rodríguez Del Pino, Torsten Böker, Stefano Carniani, Giovanni Cresci, Francesco D'Eugenio, Gareth C. Jones, Giacomo Venturi, Rongmon Bordoloi, Daichi Kashino, Ruari Mackenzie, Jorryt Matthee, Rohan Naidu, Robert A. Simcoe </p>
<p>
The James Webb Space Telescope is revolutionising our ability to understand the host galaxies and local environments of high-z quasars. Here we obtain a comprehensive understanding of the host galaxy of the z=7.08 quasar J1120+0641 by combining NIRSpec integral field spectroscopy with NIRCam photometry of the host continuum emission. Our emission line maps reveal that this quasar host is undergoing a merger with a bright companion galaxy. The quasar host and the companion have similar dynamical masses of ~10^{10}M_\odot, suggesting that this is a major galaxy interaction. Through detailed quasar subtraction and SED fitting using the NIRCam data, we obtain an estimate of the host stellar mass of M_{\ast}~eq2.6\times10^9M_\odot, with M_{*}~eq5.0\times10^9M_\odot for the companion galaxy. Using the H\beta Balmer line we estimate a virial black hole mass of M_{\rm{BH}}~eq1.4\times10^9 M_\odot. Thus, J1120+0641 has an extreme black hole - stellar mass ratio of M_{\rm{BH}}/M_\ast~eq0.54, which is ~3 dex larger than expected by the local scaling relations between black hole and stellar mass. J1120+0641 is powered by an overmassive black hole with the highest reported black hole - stellar mass ratio, in a quasar host that is currently undergoing a major merger -- these new insights highlight the power of JWST for measuring and understanding these extreme first quasars.
</p>
<p> <b> Published: </b> 2024-10-14T19:36:02Z </p>
<p> <b> Updated: </b> 2024-10-17T16:19:43Z </p>
<p> <b> Comments: </b> Submitted to A&A, comments welcome </p>
<p> <b> PDF: </b> <a href="http://arxiv.org/pdf/2410.11035v2"> http://arxiv.org/pdf/2410.11035v2 </a> </p>

### 13) [2410.10993](http://arxiv.org/abs/2410.10993v1): Direct High-resolution Observation of Feedback and Chemical Enrichment   in the Circumgalactic Medium at Redshift 2.8

<p> Bo Peng, Fabrizio Arrigoni Battaia, Amit Vishwas, Mingyu Li, Eduardo Iani, Fengwu Sun, Qiong Li, Carl Ferkinhoff, Gordon Stacey, Zheng Cai </p>
<p>
Although the circumgalactic medium (CGM) plays a vital role in galaxy evolution, studying the emission from CGM is challenging due to its low surface brightness and the complexities involved in interpreting resonant lines like Ly\alpha. The near-infrared coverage, unprecedented sensitivity, and high spatial resolution of the JWST enable us to study the optical strong lines associated with the extended Ly\alpha "nebulae" at redshift 2-3. These lines serve as diagnostic tools to infer the physical conditions in the massive CGM gas reservoir of these systems. In deep medium-band images taken by the JWST, we serendipitously discover the [O III] emission from the CGM surrounding a massive interacting galaxy system at redshift z ~ 2.8, known to be embedded in a bright extended (100 kpc) Ly\alpha "nebula". This is the first time that the [O III] lines are detected from a Ly\alpha "nebula", and the JWST images reveal that the CGM gas actually resides in narrow (~ 2.5 kpc) filamentary structures with strong [O III] emission, tracing the same extent as the Ly\alpha emission. Analysis of the [O III] suggests that the emitting CGM is fully ionized and is energetically dominated by mechanical heating. We also find that the inferred density and pressure are higher than those commonly predicted by simulations of the CGM. We conclude that the observed CGM emission originates from the gas expelled by the episodic feedback processes, cooling down and enriching the CGM, while travelling to a distance of at least 60 kpc. These observations demonstrate how fierce feedback processes shape gas distribution and properties in the CGM around massive halos. While the deep high-resolution imaging opens up a new discovery space for investigating the CGM, it also challenges numerical simulations to explain and reproduce the exquisitely complex structures revealed by the observations.
</p>
<p> <b> Published: </b> 2024-10-14T18:20:01Z </p>
<p> <b> Updated: </b> 2024-10-14T18:20:01Z </p>
<p> <b> Comments: </b> 13 pages, 6 figures, 1 table, submitted to A&A Letter </p>
<p> <b> PDF: </b> <a href="http://arxiv.org/pdf/2410.10993v1"> http://arxiv.org/pdf/2410.10993v1 </a> </p>

### 14) [2410.10988](http://arxiv.org/abs/2410.10988v1): The evolution of [OIII]$+\rm{H}β$ equivalent width from   $\mathbf{z\simeq3-8}$: implications for the production and escape of ionizing   photons during reionization

<p> R. Begley, R. J. McLure, F. Cullen, D. J. McLeod, J. S. Dunlop, A. C. Carnall, T. M. Stanton, A. E. Shapley, R. Cochrane, C. T. Donnan, R. S. Ellis, A. Fontana, N. A. Grogin, A. M. Koekemoer </p>
<p>
Accurately quantifying the ionizing photon production efficiency (\xi_\rm{ion}) of z&gt;6 star-forming galaxies (SFGs) is necessary to understand their contribution to reionization. We investigate the ionizing properties of N=289 SFGs selected at z=6.9-7.6 from the JWST Cycle-1 imaging programmes; PRIMER and JADES. We use BAGPIPES to consistently infer the equivalent widths of their [OIII]+\rm{H\beta} emission lines (W_\lambda) and their physical properties. To supplement our high-redshift galaxies, we measure W_\lambda photometrically for a sample of N=253 z=3.2-3.6 SFGs selected from the VANDELS spectroscopic survey. Comparing these samples, we find a strong apparent redshift evolution in their median W_\lambda, increasing from W_\lambda =310\pm25\,\r{A} in VANDELS to W_\lambda =630\pm30\,\r{A} in our JWST-based sample. In the JWST sample at z&gt;7, we find that W_\lambda correlates with both stellar mass and UV luminosity, with high-mass, M_{ UV}-faint galaxies producing systematically weaker emission lines. Moreover, we discover a departure from the standard log-normal shape of the W_\lambda distribution, characterised by a more pronounced tail at lower W_\lambda, consistent with increasingly bursty star formation. Using W_\lambda as a proxy for \xi_\rm{ion}, and UV spectral slope as a proxy for LyC escape fraction (f_\rm{esc}), we find a minority of galaxies with high \xi_\rm{ion} and f_\rm{esc} (e.g., \rm{log(\xi_{ion}/erg^{-1}Hz})~25.6 and f_\rm{esc}~0.15). However, we find that the LyC photon budget at z&gt;7 is dominated by galaxies with more moderate output, close to the sample median of \rm{log(\xi_{ion}/erg^{-1}Hz})~25.3 and f_\rm{esc}~0.05. This is consistent with estimates for the number of LyC photons required to power reionization at z&gt;7, with no evidence for over or under-production.
</p>
<p> <b> Published: </b> 2024-10-14T18:15:54Z </p>
<p> <b> Updated: </b> 2024-10-14T18:15:54Z </p>
<p> <b> Comments: </b> 18 pages, 9 figures + 1 appendix. Submitted to MNRAS </p>
<p> <b> PDF: </b> <a href="http://arxiv.org/pdf/2410.10988v1"> http://arxiv.org/pdf/2410.10988v1 </a> </p>

### 15) [2410.10974](http://arxiv.org/abs/2410.10974v1): Tracing star formation across cosmic time at tens of parsec-scales in   the lensing cluster field Abell 2744

<p> Adélaïde Claeyssens, Angela Adamo, Matteo Messa, Miroslava Dessauges-Zavadsky, Johan Richard, Ivan Kramarenko, Jorryt Matthee, Rohan P. Naidu </p>
<p>
We present a sample of 1956 individual stellar clumps at redshift 0.7&lt;z&lt;10, detected with JWST/NIRCam in 476 galaxies lensed by the galaxy cluster Abell2744. The lensed clumps present magnifications ranging between \mu=1.8 and \mu=300. We perform simultaneous size-photometry estimates in 20 JWST/NIRCam median and broad-band filters from 0.7 to 5 \mum. Spectral energy distribution (SED) fitting analyses enable us to recover the physical properties of the clumps. The majority of the clumps are spatially resolved and have effective radii in the range R_eff = 10 - 700 pc. We restrict this first study to the 1751 post-reionisation era clumps with redshift &lt;5.5. We find a significant evolution of the average clump ages, SFR, SFR surface densities and metallicity with increasing redshift, while median stellar mass and stellar mass surface densities are similar in the probed redshift range. We observe a strong correlation between the clump properties and the properties of their host galaxies, with more massive galaxies hosting more massive and older clumps. We find that clumps closer to their host galactic center are on average more massive, while their ages do not show clear sign of migration. We find that clumps at cosmic noon sample the upper-mass end of the mass function to higher masses than at z&gt;3, reflecting the rapid increase towards the peak of the cosmic star formation history. We conclude that the results achieved over the studied redshift range are in agreement with expectation of in-situ clump formation scenario from large-scale disk fragmentation.
</p>
<p> <b> Published: </b> 2024-10-14T18:02:21Z </p>
<p> <b> Updated: </b> 2024-10-14T18:02:21Z </p>
<p> <b> Comments: </b> Submitted to MNRAS, comments welcome </p>
<p> <b> PDF: </b> <a href="http://arxiv.org/pdf/2410.10974v1"> http://arxiv.org/pdf/2410.10974v1 </a> </p>

### 16) [2410.10967](http://arxiv.org/abs/2410.10967v1): Seven wonders of Cosmic Dawn: JWST confirms a high abundance of galaxies   and AGNs at z $\simeq$ 9-11 in the GLASS field

<p> L. Napolitano, M. Castellano, L. Pentericci, P. Arrabal Haro, A. Fontana, T. Treu, P. Bergamini, A. Calabro, S. Mascia, T. Morishita, G. Roberts-Borsani, P. Santini, E. Vanzella, B. Vulcani, D. Zakharova, T. Bakx, M. Dickinson, C. Grillo, N. Leethochawalit, M. Llerena, E. Merlin, D. Paris, S. Rojas-Ruiz, P. Rosati, X. Wang, I. Yoon, J. Zavala </p>
<p>
We present JWST/NIRSpec PRISM follow-up of candidate galaxies at z=9-11 selected from deep JWST/NIRCam photometry in GLASS-JWST Early Release Science data. We spectroscopically confirm six sources with secure redshifts at z = 9.52-10.43, each showing multiple emission lines. An additional object is likely at z = 10.66, based on its Lya-break and a single emission feature, while one source is a lower redshift interloper. The sample includes the first JWST-detected candidate at z=10, GHZ1/GLASS-z10, which we confirm at z = 9.875, and the X-ray detected AGN GHZ9 confirmed at z = 10.145. Three objects in our sample, including GHZ9, have EW(CIII])&gt;20A and occupy a region compatible with AGN emission in the EW(CIII]) vs CIV/CIII] diagram. The spectroscopic sample confirms a high abundance of galaxies at z &gt; 9. We measure a number density of z=10 galaxies in the GLASS-JWST ERS field that is a factor of &gt;3 higher than other JWST-based estimates at demagnified rest-frame magnitudes of -21 &lt; Muv &lt; -19. We find that the positions of these galaxies in redshift and angular space are not consistent with all of them being part of a unique progenitor of present-day galaxy clusters. The high density of objects in the GLASS region can be explained either by clustering on large scales or by a superposition of different forming structures of which we observe only the brightest members. By considering all the spectroscopic z=10 sources in the Abell-2744 field, we identify two potential galaxy proto-clusters centered around GHZ9 and JD1, with relative separations between their members of 1-2 pMpc. The potential AGN nature of three of the sources in our sample lends support to a scenario in which the high abundance of bright sources determined by JWST surveys at cosmic dawn may be affected by AGN contribution to their UV luminosity.
</p>
<p> <b> Published: </b> 2024-10-14T18:00:22Z </p>
<p> <b> Updated: </b> 2024-10-14T18:00:22Z </p>
<p> <b> Comments: </b> Submitted to A&A </p>
<p> <b> PDF: </b> <a href="http://arxiv.org/pdf/2410.10967v1"> http://arxiv.org/pdf/2410.10967v1 </a> </p>

### 17) [2410.10954](http://arxiv.org/abs/2410.10954v1): Spectroscopic confirmation of a dust-obscured, metal-rich dwarf galaxy   at z~5

<p> L. Bisigello, G. Gandolfi, A. Feltre, P. Arrabal Haro, A. Calabrò, N. J. Cleri, L. Costantin, G. Girardi, M. Giulietti, A. Grazian, C. Gruppioni, N. P. Hathi, B. W. Holwerda, M. Llerena, R. A. Lucas, F. Pacucci, I. Prandoni, G. Rodighiero, L. -M. Seillé, S. M. Wilkins, M. Bagley, M. Dickinson., S. L. Finkelstein, J. Kartaltepe, A. M. Koekemoer, C. Papovich, N. Pirzkal </p>
<p>
We present the first spectroscopic confirmation of a dust-obscured dwarf galaxy, CEERS-14821.   The analysis is performed combining JWST NIRCam broad-band photometry and NIRSpec/PRISM spectroscopic data. From the detection of multiple rest-frame optical lines, we derive that CEERS-14821 is located at z=4.883\pm0.003. Moreover, from a secure detection of the H_{\alpha} and H_{\beta} we derived that the galaxy has a dust extinction ranging from Av=2.2 to Av=3.3, depending on the assumed reddening law. This value is extremely large given that we estimated a low stellar mass around log(M/Mo)=8.0-8.2. Moreover, using different metallicity tracers, we verify that the galaxy is also metal-rich, with 12+log(O/H)&gt;8.3. This is well above the expectation from both the mass-metallicity relation and the fundamental mass-metalliticy relation. CEERS-14821 is going through a burst of star formation, there are no indications of a strong contribution from an active galactic nuclei (f(AGN)&lt;0.5 with respect to the total dust luminosity). Based on the rest-frame optical images, this source has a size compatible with galaxies of similar stellar mass and redshift. Finally, with the current data, it seems that there are galaxies closely interacting with CEERS-14821.
</p>
<p> <b> Published: </b> 2024-10-14T18:00:02Z </p>
<p> <b> Updated: </b> 2024-10-14T18:00:02Z </p>
<p> <b> Comments: </b> 14 pages, 11 figures. Submitted to A&A </p>
<p> <b> PDF: </b> <a href="http://arxiv.org/pdf/2410.10954v1"> http://arxiv.org/pdf/2410.10954v1 </a> </p>

### 18) [2410.10675](http://arxiv.org/abs/2410.10675v1): Hidden Cooling Flows IV: More Details on Centaurus and the Efficiency of   AGN Feedback in Clusters

<p> A. C. Fabian, G. J. Ferland, J. S. Sanders, H. R. Russell, B. R. McNamara, C. Pinto, J. Hlavacek-Larrondo, S. A. Walker, L. R. Ivey, M. McDonald </p>
<p>
Cooling flows are common in galaxy clusters which have cool cores. The soft X-ray emission below 1 keV from the flows is mostly absorbed by cold dusty gas within the central cooling sites. Further evidence for this process is presented here through a more detailed analysis of the nearby Centaurus cluster and some additional clusters. Predictions of JWST near and mid-infrared spectra from cooling gas are presented. [NeVI] emission at 7.65 micron should be an important diagnostic of gas cooling between 6 and 1.5 times 10^5 K. The emerging overall picture of hidden cooling flows is explored. The efficiency of AGN feedback in reducing the total cooling rate in cool cores is shown to be above 50 percent for many clusters but is rarely above 90 per cent. The reduction is mostly in outer gas. Cooling dominates in elliptical galaxies and galaxy groups which have mass flow rates below about 15M/yr and in some massive clusters where rates can exceed 1000M/yr.
</p>
<p> <b> Published: </b> 2024-10-14T16:17:20Z </p>
<p> <b> Updated: </b> 2024-10-14T16:17:20Z </p>
<p> <b> Comments: </b> 17 pages, 49 figures submitted to MNRAS </p>
<p> <b> PDF: </b> <a href="http://arxiv.org/pdf/2410.10675v1"> http://arxiv.org/pdf/2410.10675v1 </a> </p>

### 19) [2410.10406](http://arxiv.org/abs/2410.10406v1): Candidates for Substellar Members of the Orion Nebula Cluster from   JWST/NIRCam

<p> K. L. Luhman </p>
<p>
In 2022, the James Webb Space Telescope (JWST) obtained 1-5um images of the center of the Orion Nebula Cluster (ONC). I have analyzed these data in an attempt to search for substellar members of the cluster. Using a pair of color-color diagrams, I have identified &gt;200 brown dwarf candidates that lack spectral classifications. Some of the candidates could be protostars (either stellar or substellar) given their very red colors. Based on the age of the ONC and the photometry predicted by theoretical evolutionary models, the faintest candidates could have masses of 1-2 Mjup. This sample of candidates may prove to be valuable for studying various aspects of young brown dwarfs, including their mass function and minimum mass. However, spectroscopy is needed to confirm the membership (via signatures of youth) and late spectral types of the candidates. Finally, I note that most of the "Jupiter-mass binary objects" that have been previously identified with these JWST images are absent from my sample of candidates because their colors are indicative of reddened background sources rather than young brown dwarfs or their photometry is inadequate for assessing their nature because of very low signal-to-noise ratios and/or detections in only a few bands.
</p>
<p> <b> Published: </b> 2024-10-14T11:58:37Z </p>
<p> <b> Updated: </b> 2024-10-14T11:58:37Z </p>
<p> <b> Comments: </b> Astronomical Journal, in press </p>
<p> <b> PDF: </b> <a href="http://arxiv.org/pdf/2410.10406v1"> http://arxiv.org/pdf/2410.10406v1 </a> </p>

### 20) [2410.10000](http://arxiv.org/abs/2410.10000v1): JWST/NIRSpec Observations of Brown Dwarfs in the Orion Nebula Cluster

<p> K. L. Luhman, C Alves de Oliveira, I. Baraffe, G. Chabrier, E. Manjavacas, R. J. Parker, P. Tremblin </p>
<p>
We have used the multiobject mode of the Near-Infrared Spectrograph (NIRSpec) on board the James Webb Space Telescope (JWST) to obtain low-resolution 1-5um spectra of 22 brown dwarf candidates in the Orion Nebula Cluster, which were selected with archival images from the Hubble Space Telescope. One of the targets was previously classified as a Herbig-Haro (HH) object and exhibits strong emission in H I, H2, and the fundamental band of CO, further demonstrating that HH objects can have bright emission in that CO band. The remaining targets have late spectral types (M6.5 to early L) and are young based on gravity sensitive features, as expected for low-mass members of the cluster. According to theoretical evolutionary models, these objects should have masses that range from the hydrogen burning limit to 0.003-0.007 Msun. Two of the NIRSpec targets were identified as proplyds in earlier analysis of Hubble images. They have spectral types of M6.5 and M7.5, making them two of the coolest and least massive known proplyds. Another brown dwarf shows absorption bands at 3-5um from ices containing H2O, CO2, OCN-, and CO, indicating that it is either an edge-on class II system or a class I protostar. It is the coolest and least massive object that has detections of these ice features. In addition, it appears to be the first candidate for a protostellar brown dwarf that has spectroscopy confirming its late spectral type.
</p>
<p> <b> Published: </b> 2024-10-13T20:45:26Z </p>
<p> <b> Updated: </b> 2024-10-13T20:45:26Z </p>
<p> <b> Comments: </b> Astronomical Journal, in press </p>
<p> <b> PDF: </b> <a href="http://arxiv.org/pdf/2410.10000v1"> http://arxiv.org/pdf/2410.10000v1 </a> </p>

### 21) [2410.09450](http://arxiv.org/abs/2410.09450v1): The effects of super-Eddington accretion and feedback on the growth of   early supermassive black holes and galaxies

<p> Filip Huško, Cedric G. Lacey, William J. Roper, Joop Schaye, Jemima Mae Briggs, Matthieu Schaller </p>
<p>
We present results of cosmological zoom-in simulations of a massive protocluster down to redshift z\approx4 (when the halo mass is \approx10^{13} M_\odot) using the SWIFT code and the EAGLE galaxy formation model, focusing on supermassive black hole (BH) physics. The BH was seeded with a mass of 10^4 M_\odot at redshift z\approx17. We compare the base model that uses an Eddington limit on the BH accretion rate and thermal isotropic feedback by the AGN, with one where super-Eddington accretion is allowed, as well as two other models with BH spin and jets. In the base model, the BH grows at the Eddington limit from z=9 to z=5.5, when it becomes massive enough to halt its own and its host galaxy's growth through feedback. We find that allowing super-Eddington accretion leads to drastic differences, with the BH going through an intense but short super-Eddington growth burst around z\approx7.5, during which it increases its mass by orders of magnitude, before feedback stops further growth (of both the BH and the galaxy). By z\approx4 the galaxy is only half as massive in the super-Eddington cases, and an order of magnitude more extended, with the half-mass radius reaching values of a few physical kpc instead of a few hundred pc. The BH masses in our simulations are consistent with the intrinsic BH mass-stellar mass relation inferred from high-redshift observations by JWST. This shows that galaxy formation models using the \LambdaCDM cosmology are capable of reproducing the observed massive BHs at high redshift. Allowing jets, either at super- or sub-Eddington rates, has little impact on the host galaxy properties, but leads to lower BH masses as a result of stronger self-regulation, which is itself a consequence of higher feedback efficiencies.
</p>
<p> <b> Published: </b> 2024-10-12T09:06:10Z </p>
<p> <b> Updated: </b> 2024-10-12T09:06:10Z </p>
<p> <b> Comments: </b> Submitted to MNRAS </p>
<p> <b> PDF: </b> <a href="http://arxiv.org/pdf/2410.09450v1"> http://arxiv.org/pdf/2410.09450v1 </a> </p>

### 22) [2410.09256](http://arxiv.org/abs/2410.09256v1): Measuring Star Formation Histories from Asymptotic Giant Branch Stars: A   Demonstration in M31

<p> Abigail J. Lee, Daniel R. Weisz, Yi Ren, Alessandro Savino, Andrew E. Dolphin </p>
<p>
We demonstrate how near infrared (NIR) imaging of resolved luminous asymptotic giant branch (AGB) stars can be used to measure well-constrained star formation histories (SFHs) across cosmic time. Using UKIRT J and K-band imaging of M31, we first show excellent agreement over the past ~8 Gyr between the PHAT SFH of M31's outer disk derived from a deep optical color-magnitude diagram (CMD; ~3.3\times10^{7} stars with M_{F814W} \lesssim +2), and our spatially-matched SFH based only on modeling AGB stars on a NIR CMD (~2.3\times10^{4} stars with M_{J} \lesssim -5). We find that only hundreds of AGB stars are needed for reliable SFH recovery, owing to their excellent age sensitivity in the NIR. We then measure the spatially resolved SFH of M31's inner stellar halo (D_{M31, projected} ~20-30 kpc) using ~10^5 AGB stars. We find: (i) a dominant burst of star formation across M31's inner stellar halo from 4-5 Gyr ago and lower level, spatially distributed star formation ~1-2 Gyr ago; (ii) a younger 'quenching time' in the vicinity of NGC 205 (~1 Gyr ago) than near M32 (~1.1 Gyr ago); (iii) M_{\star}~4\pm0.5\times10^9 M_{\odot} formed over the past ~8 Gyr. We discuss some caveats and the enormous potential of resolved AGB stars in the NIR for measuring SFHs back to ancient epochs (~13 Gyr ago) in galaxies to large distances (D\gtrsim20 Mpc) with JWST, Roman, and Euclid.
</p>
<p> <b> Published: </b> 2024-10-11T21:11:46Z </p>
<p> <b> Updated: </b> 2024-10-11T21:11:46Z </p>
<p> <b> Comments: </b> 25 pages, 19 figures, submitted to AAS Journals </p>
<p> <b> PDF: </b> <a href="http://arxiv.org/pdf/2410.09256v1"> http://arxiv.org/pdf/2410.09256v1 </a> </p>

### 23) [2410.09253](http://arxiv.org/abs/2410.09253v1): The JWST-NIRCam View of Sagittarius C. I. Massive Star Formation and   Protostellar Outflows

<p> Samuel Crowe, Rubén Fedriani, Jonathan C. Tan, Alva Kinman, Yichen Zhang, Morten Andersen, Lucía Bravo Ferres, Francisco Nogueras-Lara, Rainer Schödel, John Bally, Adam Ginsburg, Yu Cheng, Yao-Lun Yang, Sarah Kendrew, Chi-Yan Law, Joseph Armstrong, Zhi-Yun Li </p>
<p>
We present James Webb Space Telescope (JWST)-NIRCam observations of the massive star-forming molecular cloud Sagittarius C (Sgr C) in the Central Molecular Zone (CMZ). In conjunction with ancillary mid-IR and far-IR data, we characterize the two most massive protostars in Sgr C via spectral energy distribution (SED) fitting, estimating that they each have current masses of m_* ~ 20\:M_\odot and surrounding envelope masses of ~ 100\:M_\odot. We report a census of lower-mass protostars in Sgr C via a search for infrared counterparts to mm continuum dust cores found with ALMA. We identify 88 molecular hydrogen outflow knot candidates originating from outflows from protostars in Sgr C, the first such unambiguous detections in the infrared in the CMZ. About a quarter of these are associated with flows from the two massive protostars in Sgr C; these extend for over 1 pc and are associated with outflows detected in ALMA SiO line data. An additional ~ 40 features likely trace shocks in outflows powered by lower-mass protostars throughout the cloud. We report the discovery of a new star-forming region hosting two prominent bow shocks and several other line-emitting features driven by at least two protostars. We infer that one of these is forming a high-mass star given an SED-derived mass of m_* ~ 9\:M_\odot and associated massive (~ 90\:M_\odot) mm core and water maser. Finally, we identify a population of miscellaneous Molecular Hydrogen Objects (MHOs) that do not appear to be associated with protostellar outflows.
</p>
<p> <b> Published: </b> 2024-10-11T20:59:21Z </p>
<p> <b> Updated: </b> 2024-10-11T20:59:21Z </p>
<p> <b> Comments: </b> Appendix figures B1 and B2 will be made into online-only figure sets   for the eventual ApJ publication </p>
<p> <b> PDF: </b> <a href="http://arxiv.org/pdf/2410.09253v1"> http://arxiv.org/pdf/2410.09253v1 </a> </p>

### 24) [2410.09205](http://arxiv.org/abs/2410.09205v1): From UV-bright Galaxies to Early Disks: the Importance of Turbulent Star   Formation in the Early Universe

<p> Vadim A. Semenov, Charlie Conroy, Lars Hernquist </p>
<p>
Bursty star formation at early times can explain the surprising abundance of early UV-bright galaxies revealed by JWST but can also be a reason for the delayed formation of galactic disks in high-resolution cosmological simulations. We investigate this interplay in a cosmological simulation of an early-forming Milky Way analog with detailed modeling of cold turbulent interstellar medium (ISM), star formation, and feedback. We find that the modeling of locally variable star formation efficiency (SFE) coupled with the ISM turbulence on the scales of star-forming regions is important for producing both early bursty evolution and early formation and survival of galactic disks. Such a model introduces a qualitatively new channel of the global star formation rate (SFR) burstiness caused by chaotic fluctuations in the average SFE due to changes in the ISM turbulence, which, in our simulation, dominates the short-term SFR variability. The average SFE stays low, close to ~ 1&percnt; per freefall time, and its variation decreases when the gas disk forms, leading to only mild effects of stellar feedback on the early disk, enabling its survival. By rerunning our simulation with fixed SFE values, we explicitly show that low SFEs lead to smoother SFR histories and disk survival, while high SFEs lead to bursty SFRs and hinder disk formation. The model with variable SFE switches between these two regimes at the moment of disk formation. These trends are missing in more commonly used star formation prescriptions with fixed SFE; in particular, the prescriptions tying star formation to molecular gas should be interpreted with caution because the two are decoupled at early times, as we also show in this paper.
</p>
<p> <b> Published: </b> 2024-10-11T19:21:08Z </p>
<p> <b> Updated: </b> 2024-10-11T19:21:08Z </p>
<p> <b> Comments: </b> 16 pages, 10 figures; to be submitted; comments are welcome. For   visualizations, see https://vadimsemenov.com/visualizations/ </p>
<p> <b> PDF: </b> <a href="http://arxiv.org/pdf/2410.09205v1"> http://arxiv.org/pdf/2410.09205v1 </a> </p>

### 25) [2410.09162](http://arxiv.org/abs/2410.09162v1): Extending the cosmic distance ladder two orders of magnitude with   strongly lensed Cepheids, carbon AGB, and RGB stars

<p> J. M. Diego, S. P. Willner, J. M. Palencia </p>
<p>
Extreme magnification of stars near the caustics of clusters allow to detect individual luminous stars at high redshift. We show how deep exposures of caustic crossing galaxies at z\lesssim1 with IR telescopes such as JWST, can detect non-explosive distance calibrators, such as Cepheids, carbon stars in the asymptotic giant branch or stars in the tip of the red giant branch. A large number of such detections, combined with careful modelling of the magnification affecting these stars (including microlensing), opens the door to using them as alternative standard candles to SNe in a redshift range that would extend the cosmic distance ladder two orders of magnitude for these distance calibrators. As a bonus, strongly lensed stars detected in deep exposures provide also a robust method of mapping small dark matter substructures since they cluster around the critical curves of small scale dark matter halos.
</p>
<p> <b> Published: </b> 2024-10-11T18:09:55Z </p>
<p> <b> Updated: </b> 2024-10-11T18:09:55Z </p>
<p> <b> Comments: </b> 6 pages and 6 figures </p>
<p> <b> PDF: </b> <a href="http://arxiv.org/pdf/2410.09162v1"> http://arxiv.org/pdf/2410.09162v1 </a> </p>

### 26) [2410.09142](http://arxiv.org/abs/2410.09142v1): JWST/MIRI Observations of Newly Formed Dust in the Cold, Dense Shell of   the Type IIn SN 2005ip

<p> Melissa Shahbandeh, Ori D. Fox, Tea Temim, Eli Dwek, Arkaprabha Sarangi, Nathan Smith, Luc Dessart, Bryony Nickson, Michael Engesser, Alexei V. Filippenko, Thomas G. Brink, Weikang Zheng, Tamás Szalai, Joel Johansson, Armin Rest, Schuyler D. Van Dyk, Jennifer Andrews, Chris Ashall, Geoffrey C. Clayton, Ilse De Looze, James M. Derkacy, Michael Dulude, Ryan J. Foley, Suvi Gezari, Sebastian Gomez, Shireen Gonzaga, Siva Indukuri, Jacob Jencson, Mansi Kasliwal, Zachary G. Lane, Ryan Lau, David Law, Anthony Marston, Dan Milisavljevic, Richard O'Steen, Justin Pierel, Matthew Siebert, Michael Skrutskie, Lou Strolger, Samaporn Tinyanont, Qinan Wang, Brian Williams, Lin Xiao, Yi Yang, Szanna Zsíros </p>
<p>
Dust from core-collapse supernovae (CCSNe), specifically Type IIP SNe, has been suggested to be a significant source of the dust observed in high-redshift galaxies. CCSNe eject large amounts of newly formed heavy elements, which can condense into dust grains in the cooling ejecta. However, infrared (IR) observations of typical CCSNe generally measure dust masses that are too small to account for the dust production needed at high redshifts. Type IIn SNe, classified by their dense circumstellar medium (CSM), are also known to exhibit strong IR emission from warm dust, but the dust origin and heating mechanism have generally remained unconstrained because of limited observational capabilities in the mid-IR. Here, we present a JWST/MIRI Medium Resolution Spectrograph (MRS) spectrum of the Type IIn SN 2005ip nearly 17 years post-explosion. The Type IIn SN 2005ip is one of the longest-lasting and most well-studied SNe observed to date. Combined with a Spitzer mid-IR spectrum of SN 2005ip obtained in 2008, this data set provides a rare 15-year baseline, allowing for a unique investigation of the evolution of dust. The JWST spectrum shows a new high-mass dust component (\gtrsim0.08 M_{\odot}) that is not present in the earlier Spitzer spectrum. Our analysis shows dust likely formed over the past 15 years in the cold, dense shell (CDS), between the forward and reverse shocks. There is also a smaller mass of carbonaceous dust (\gtrsim0.005 M_{\odot}) in the ejecta. These observations provide new insights into the role of SN dust production, particularly within the CDS, and its potential contribution to the rapid dust enrichment of the early Universe.
</p>
<p> <b> Published: </b> 2024-10-11T18:00:00Z </p>
<p> <b> Updated: </b> 2024-10-11T18:00:00Z </p>
<p> <b> Comments: </b>  </p>
<p> <b> PDF: </b> <a href="http://arxiv.org/pdf/2410.09142v1"> http://arxiv.org/pdf/2410.09142v1 </a> </p>

### 27) [2410.09020](http://arxiv.org/abs/2410.09020v1): A JWST/MIRI View of the ISM in M83: I. Resolved Molecular Hydrogen   Properties, Star Formation, and Feedback

<p> Logan H. Jones, Svea Hernandez, Linda J. Smith, Aditya Togi, Tanio Diaz-Santos, Alessandra Aloisi, William Blair, Alec S. Hirschauer, Leslie K. Hunt, Bethan L. James, Nimisha Kumari, Vianney Lebouteiller, Matilde Mingozzi, Lise Ramambason </p>
<p>
We present a spatially-resolved (~3 pc pix^{-1}) analysis of the distribution, kinematics, and excitation of warm H2 gas in the nuclear starburst region of M83. Our JWST/MIRI IFU spectroscopy reveals a clumpy reservoir of warm H2 (&gt; 200 K) with a mass of ~2.3 x 10^{5} Msun in the area covered by all four MRS channels. We additionally use the [Ne II] 12.8 {\mu}m and [Ne III] 15.5 {\mu}m lines as tracers of the star formation rate, ionizing radiation hardness, and kinematics of the ionized ISM, finding tantalizing connections to the H2 properties and to the ages of the underlying stellar populations. Finally, qualitative comparisons to the trove of public, high-spatial-resolution multiwavelength data available on M83 shows that our MRS spectroscopy potentially traces all stages of the process of creating massive star clusters, from the embedded proto-cluster phase through the dispersion of ISM from stellar feedback.
</p>
<p> <b> Published: </b> 2024-10-11T17:37:09Z </p>
<p> <b> Updated: </b> 2024-10-11T17:37:09Z </p>
<p> <b> Comments: </b> 21 pages, 11+1 figures; submitted to ApJ </p>
<p> <b> PDF: </b> <a href="http://arxiv.org/pdf/2410.09020v1"> http://arxiv.org/pdf/2410.09020v1 </a> </p>

### 28) [2410.09000](http://arxiv.org/abs/2410.09000v1): The JWST Emission Line Survey (JELS): Extending rest-optical narrow-band   emission line selection into the Epoch of Reionization

<p> K. J. Duncan, D. J. McLeod, P. N. Best, C. A. Pirie, M. Clausen, R. K. Cochrane, J. S. Dunlop, S. R. Flury, J. E. Geach, C. L. Hale, E. Ibar, R. Kondapally, Zefeng Li, J. Matthee, R. J. McLure, Luis Ossa-Fuentes, A. L. Patrick, Ian Smail, D. Sobral, H. M. O. Stephenson, J. P. Stott, A. M. Swinbank </p>
<p>
We present the JWST Emission Line Survey (JELS), a Cycle 1 JWST imaging programme exploiting the wavelength coverage and sensitivity of NIRCam to extend narrow-band rest-optical emission line selection into the epoch of reionization (EoR) for the first time, and to enable unique studies of the resolved ionised gas morphology in individual galaxies across cosmic history. The primary JELS observations comprise ~4.7\mum narrow-band imaging over ~63 arcmin^{2} designed to enable selection of H\alpha emitters at z~6.1, as well as the selection of a host of novel emission-line samples including [OIII] at z~8.3 and Pa \alpha/\beta at z~1.5/2.8. For the prime F466N and F470N narrow-band observations, the emission-line sensitivities achieved are up to ~2\times more sensitive than current slitless spectroscopy surveys (5\sigma limits of 1.1-1.6\times10^{-18}\text{erg s}^{-1}\text{cm}^{-2}), corresponding to unobscured H\alpha star-formation rates (SFRs) of 1-1.6 \text{M}_{\odot}\,\text{yr}^{-1} at z~6.1 and extending emission-line selections in the EoR to fainter populations. Simultaneously, JELS also obtained F200W broadband and F212N narrow-band imaging (H\alpha at z~2.23) that probes SFRs \gtrsim5\times fainter than previous ground-based narrow-band studies (~0.2 \text{M}_{\odot}\text{yr}^{-1}), offering an unprecedented resolved view of star formation at cosmic noon. In this paper we describe the detailed JELS survey design, key data processing steps specific to the survey observations, and demonstrate the exceptional data quality and imaging sensitivity achieved. We then summarise the key scientific goals of JELS and present some early science results, including examples of spectroscopically confirmed H\alpha and [OIII] emitters discovered by JELS that illustrate the novel parameter space probed.
</p>
<p> <b> Published: </b> 2024-10-11T17:13:39Z </p>
<p> <b> Updated: </b> 2024-10-11T17:13:39Z </p>
<p> <b> Comments: </b> Submitted to MRNAS; 13 pages, 8 figures. Accompanying data will be   publicly released upon acceptance of this and companion paper (Pirie et al.,   subm.) </p>
<p> <b> PDF: </b> <a href="http://arxiv.org/pdf/2410.09000v1"> http://arxiv.org/pdf/2410.09000v1 </a> </p>

### 29) [2410.08745](http://arxiv.org/abs/2410.08745v1): JWST/NIRSpec spectroscopy of intermediate-mass quiescent galaxies at $z   \sim 3-4$

<p> Riku A. Sato, Akio K. Inoue, Yuichi Harikane, Rhythm Shimakawa, Yuma Sugahara, Yoichi Tamura, Takuya Hashimoto, Kei Ito, Satoshi Yamanaka, Ken Mawatari, Yoshinobu Fudamoto, Yi W. Ren </p>
<p>
We present the analysis of three intermediate-mass quiescent galaxies (QGs) with stellar masses of ~10^{10}M_{\rm \odot} at redshifts z~ 3 - 4 using NIRSpec low-resolution spectroscopy. Utilising the SED fitting code BAGPIPES, we confirm these target galaxies are consistent with quiescent population, with their specific star formation rates (sSFR) falling below 2-dex the star-forming main sequence at the same redshifts. Additionally, we identify these QGs to be less massive than those discovered in previous works, particularly prior to the JWST era. Two of our target galaxies exhibit the potentially-blended H{\alpha}+[NII] emission line within their spectra with S/N&gt;5. We discuss whether this feature comes from an Active Galactic Nucleus (AGN) or star formation although future high-resolution spectroscopy is required to reach a conclusion. One of the target galaxies is covered by JWST/NIRCam imaging of the PRIMER survey. Using the 2D profile fitting code Galfit, we examine its morphology, revealing a disc-like profile with a S\'{e}rsic index of n=1.1 \pm 0.1. On the size-mass relation, we find a potential distinction between less-massive (\log_{10}{(M_*/M_\odot)}&lt;10.3) and massive (\log_{10}{(M_*/M_\odot)}&gt;10.3) QGs in their evolutionary pathways. The derived quenching timescales for our targets are less than 1 Gyr. This may result from these galaxies being quenched by AGN feedback, supporting the AGN scenario of the emission line features.
</p>
<p> <b> Published: </b> 2024-10-11T12:02:56Z </p>
<p> <b> Updated: </b> 2024-10-11T12:02:56Z </p>
<p> <b> Comments: </b> MNRAS accepted </p>
<p> <b> PDF: </b> <a href="http://arxiv.org/pdf/2410.08745v1"> http://arxiv.org/pdf/2410.08745v1 </a> </p>

### 30) [2410.08707](http://arxiv.org/abs/2410.08707v1): The nature of low-luminosity AGNs discovered by JWST at $5<z<6$ based on   clustering analysis: ancestors of quasars at $z\lesssim3$?

<p> Junya Arita, Nobunari Kashikawa, Masafusa Onoue, Takehiro Yoshioka, Yoshihiro Takeda, Hiroki Hoshi, Shunta Shimizu </p>
<p>
James Webb Space Telescope (JWST) has discovered many faint AGNs at high-z by detecting their broad Balmer lines. However, their high number density, lack of X-ray emission, and overly high black hole masses with respect to their host stellar masses suggest that they are a distinct population from general type-1 quasars. Here, we present clustering analysis of 28 low-luminosity broad-line AGNs found by JWST (JWST AGNs) at 5&lt;z&lt;6 based on cross-correlation analysis with 679 photometrically-selected galaxies to characterize their host dark matter halo (DMH) masses. From angular and projected cross-correlation functions, we find that their typical DMH mass is \log (M_\mathrm{halo}/h^{-1}\mathrm{M}_\odot) = 11.61_{-0.24}^{+0.19}, and  11.72_{-0.20}^{+0.17}, respectively. This result implies that the host DMHs of these AGNs are ~1 dex smaller than that of luminous quasars. The DMHs of JWST AGNs at 5&lt;z&lt;6 are predicted to grow to 10^{12\unicode{x2013}13}\,h^{-1}\mathrm{M}_\odot, a typical mass of quasar at z\lesssim3. Applying the empirical stellar-to-halo mass ratio to the measured DMH mass, their host stellar mass is evaluated as \log(M_*/\mathrm{M}_\odot)=9.72_{-0.39}^{+0.31}, and  9.90_{-0.33}^{+0.27}, which are higher than some of those estimated by the SED fitting. We also evaluate their duty cycle as f_\mathrm{duty}=0.36_{-0.14}^{+0.18} per cent, namely ~7\times10^6 yr as the lifetime of JWST AGNs. While we cannot exclude the possibility that JWST AGNs are simply low-mass type-1 quasars, these results suggest that JWST AGNs are a different population from type-1 quasars, and may be the ancestors of quasars at z\lesssim3.
</p>
<p> <b> Published: </b> 2024-10-11T10:51:23Z </p>
<p> <b> Updated: </b> 2024-10-11T10:51:23Z </p>
<p> <b> Comments: </b> 12 pages, 7 figures, submitted to MNRAS </p>
<p> <b> PDF: </b> <a href="http://arxiv.org/pdf/2410.08707v1"> http://arxiv.org/pdf/2410.08707v1 </a> </p>

### 31) [2410.08520](http://arxiv.org/abs/2410.08520v1): Compact [OIII] emission-line regions ("Green Seeds") in   $\mathrm{Hα}$ emitters at Cosmic Noon from JWST Observations

<p> Nuo Chen, Kentaro Motohara, Lee Spitler, Matthew A. Malkan </p>
<p>
We present a rest-frame optical, spatially resolved analysis of more than 100 \mathrm{H\alpha} emitters (HAEs) at z~2.2 in the ZFOURGE-CDFS field using NIRCam imaging from the JWST Advanced Deep Extragalactic Survey (JADES). The ultra-deep, high-resolution data gives us maps of the resolved emission line regions of HAEs with stellar mass ranging from 10^{8}\,M_{\odot} to 10^{10}\,M_{\odot}. An [OIII] emission-line map of each HAE is created from the flux excess in the F150W filter, leading to the discovery of a population of kiloparsec-scale compact emission line regions (``Green Seeds") with high equivalent widths (\mathrm{EW}). We obtain a sample of 128 Green Seeds from 68 HAEs with rest-frame \mathrm{EW_{[OIII]}}&gt;200\r{A}. Moreover, 17 of them have extremely large \mathrm{EW_{[OIII]}}&gt;1000\r{A}, suggesting the possible Lyman continuum (LyC) leakage from these emission line regions. Embedded within the host galaxy, many Green Seeds correspond to UV star-forming clumps and H{\sc ii} regions, indicating elevated starburst activity in them, with specific star formation rates (sSFR) several times higher than that of the host galaxy. Based on theoretical frameworks, Green Seeds are expected to be formed through gravitational disk instability and/or galaxy mergers. Considering the stellar masses of Green Seeds, we speculate that high-mass Green Seeds may migrate toward the galactic center to build the central bulge, while low-mass Green Seeds are easily disrupted and short-lived. Besides, we propose that some Green Seeds could be the progenitors of globular clusters or ultracompact dwarf galaxies observed in the local universe.
</p>
<p> <b> Published: </b> 2024-10-11T04:43:57Z </p>
<p> <b> Updated: </b> 2024-10-11T04:43:57Z </p>
<p> <b> Comments: </b> 29 pages, 18 figures, Submitted to ApJ </p>
<p> <b> PDF: </b> <a href="http://arxiv.org/pdf/2410.08520v1"> http://arxiv.org/pdf/2410.08520v1 </a> </p>

### 32) [2410.08387](http://arxiv.org/abs/2410.08387v1): RUBIES: JWST/NIRSpec resolves evolutionary phases of dusty star-forming   galaxies at $z\sim2$

<p> Olivia R. Cooper, Gabriel Brammer, Kasper E. Heintz, Sune Toft, Caitlin M. Casey, David J. Setton, Anna de Graaff, Leindert Boogaard, Nikko J. Cleri, Steven Gillman, Rashmi Gottumukkala, Jenny E. Greene, Bitten Gullberg, Michaela Hirschmann, Raphael E. Hviding, Erini Lambrides, Joel Leja, Arianna S. Long, Sinclaire M. Manning, Michael V. Maseda, Ian McConachie, Jed McKinney, Desika Narayanan, Sedona H. Price, Victoria Strait, Andrea Weibel, Christina C. Williams </p>
<p>
The dearth of high quality spectroscopy of dusty star-forming galaxies (DSFGs) -- the main drivers of the assembly of dust and stellar mass at the peak of activity in the Universe -- greatly hinders our ability to interpret their physical processes and evolutionary pathways. We present JWST/NIRSpec observations from RUBIES of four submillimeter-selected, ALMA-detected DSFGs at cosmic noon, z~2.3-2.7. While photometry uniformly suggests vigorous ongoing star formation for the entire sample in line with canonical DSFGs, the spectra differ: one source has spectroscopic evidence of an evolved stellar population, indicating a recent transition to a post-starburst phase, while the remainder show strong spectroscopic signatures of ongoing starbursts. All four galaxies are infrared-luminous (log_{10}L_{\rm{IR}}/L_{\rm \odot} &gt;12.4), massive (log_{10}\,M_\star/M_{\rm \odot} &gt;11), and very dust-obscured (A_V~3-4 ABmag). Leveraging detections of multiple Balmer and Paschen lines, we derive an optical attenuation curve consistent with Calzetti overall, yet an optical extinction ratio R_V~2.5, potentially indicating smaller dust grains or differences in star-dust geometry. This case study provides some of the first detailed spectroscopic evidence that the DSFGs encompass a heterogeneous sample spanning a range of star formation properties and evolutionary stages, and illustrates the advantages of synergistic JWST and ALMA analysis of DSFGs.
</p>
<p> <b> Published: </b> 2024-10-10T21:46:54Z </p>
<p> <b> Updated: </b> 2024-10-10T21:46:54Z </p>
<p> <b> Comments: </b> 20 pages, 4 figures; submitted to ApJ </p>
<p> <b> PDF: </b> <a href="http://arxiv.org/pdf/2410.08387v1"> http://arxiv.org/pdf/2410.08387v1 </a> </p>

### 33) [2410.08290](http://arxiv.org/abs/2410.08290v1): COSMOS-Web: stellar mass assembly in relation to dark matter halos   across $0.2<z<12$ of cosmic history

<p> M. Shuntov, O. Ilbert, S. Toft, R. C. Arango-Toro, H. B. Akins, C. M. Casey, M. Franco, S. Harish, J. S. Kartaltepe, A. M. Koekemoer, H. J. McCracken, L. Paquereau, C. Laigle, M. Bethermin, Y. Dubois, N. E. Drakos, A. Faisst, G. Gozaliasl, S. Gillman, C. C. Hayward, M. Hirschmann, M. Huertas-Company, C. K. Jespersen, S. Jin, V. Kokorev, E. Lambrides, D. Le Borgne, D. Liu, G. Magdis, R. Massey, C. J. R. McPartland, W. Mercier, J. E. McCleary, J. McKinney, P. A. Oesch, J. D. Rhodes, R. M. Rich, B. E. Robertson, D. Sanders, M. Trebitsch, L. Tresse, F. Valentino, A. P. Vijayan, J. R. Weaver, A. Weibel, S. M. Wilkins </p>
<p>
We study the stellar mass function (SMF) and the co-evolution with dark matter halos via abundance matching in the largest redshift range to date 0.2&lt;z&lt;12 in 0.53 \, {\rm deg}^2 imaged by JWST from the COSMOS-Web survey. At z&gt;5, we find increased abundances of massive (log\, M_{\star}/M_{\odot}&gt;10.5) implying integrated star formation efficiencies (SFE) \epsilon_{\star}\equiv M_{\star}\, f_{\rm b}^{-1} M_{\rm halo}^{-1} \gtrsim 0.5. We find a flattening of the SMF at the high-mass end that is better described by a double power law at z&gt;5.5. At z \lesssim 5.5 it transitions to a Schechter law which coincides with the emergence of the first massive quiescent galaxies in the Universe. We trace the cosmic stellar mass density (SMD) and infer the star formation rate density (SFRD), which at z&gt;7.5 agrees remarkably with recent \JWST{} UV luminosity function-derived estimates. However, at z \lesssim 3.5, we find significant tension (~ 0.3 dex) with the cosmic star formation (SF) history from instantaneous SF measures, the causes of which remain poorly understood. We infer the stellar-to-halo mass relation (SHMR) and the SFE from abundance matching out to z=12, finding a non-monotonic evolution. The SFE has the characteristic strong dependence with mass in the range of 0.02 - 0.2, and mildly decreases at the low mass end out to z~3.5. At z~3.5 the SFE increases sharply from ~ 0.1 to approach high SFE of 0.8-1 by z~ 10 for log(M_{\rm h}/M_{\odot})\approx11.5, albeit with large uncertainties. Finally, we use the SHMR to track the SFE and stellar mass growth throughout the halo history and find that they do not grow at the same rate -- from the earliest times up until z~3.5 the halo growth rate outpaces galaxy assembly, but at z&gt;3.5 halo growth stagnates and accumulated gas reservoirs keep the SF going and galaxies outpace halos.
</p>
<p> <b> Published: </b> 2024-10-10T18:21:25Z </p>
<p> <b> Updated: </b> 2024-10-10T18:21:25Z </p>
<p> <b> Comments: </b>  </p>
<p> <b> PDF: </b> <a href="http://arxiv.org/pdf/2410.08290v1"> http://arxiv.org/pdf/2410.08290v1 </a> </p>

### 34) [2410.07498](http://arxiv.org/abs/2410.07498v1): Comparing E-MOSAICS predictions of high-redshift proto-globular clusters   with JWST observations in lensed galaxies

<p> Joel Pfeffer, Duncan A. Forbes, Aaron J. Romanowsky, Nate Bastian, Robert A. Crain, J. M. Diederik Kruijssen, Kenji Bekki, Jean P. Brodie, Mélanie Chevance, Warrick J. Couch, Jonah S. Gannon </p>
<p>
High-resolution imaging and strong gravitational lensing of high-redshift galaxies have enabled the detection of compact sources with properties similar to nearby massive star clusters. Often found to be very young, these sources may be globular clusters detected in their earliest stages. In this work, we compare predictions of high-redshift (z ~ 1--10) star cluster properties from the E-MOSAICS simulation of galaxy and star cluster formation with those of the star cluster candidates in strongly lensed galaxies from James Webb (JWST) and Hubble Space Telescope (HST) imaging. We select galaxies in the simulation that match the luminosities of the majority of lensed galaxies with star cluster candidates observed with JWST. We find that the luminosities, ages and masses of the brightest star cluster candidates in the high-redshift galaxies are consistent with the E-MOSAICS model. In particular, the brightest cluster ages are in excellent agreement. The results suggest that star clusters in both low- and high-redshift galaxies may form via common mechanisms. However, the brightest clusters in the lensed galaxies tend to be \approx 1--1.5 mag brighter and \approx 0.5 dex more massive than the median E-MOSAICS predictions. We discuss the large number of effects that could explain the discrepancy, including simulation and observational limitations, stellar population models, cluster detection biases and nuclear star clusters. Understanding these limitations would enable stronger tests of globular cluster formation models.
</p>
<p> <b> Published: </b> 2024-10-10T00:22:24Z </p>
<p> <b> Updated: </b> 2024-10-10T00:22:24Z </p>
<p> <b> Comments: </b> 17 pages, 9 figures, 1 table. Submitted to MNRAS </p>
<p> <b> PDF: </b> <a href="http://arxiv.org/pdf/2410.07498v1"> http://arxiv.org/pdf/2410.07498v1 </a> </p>

### 35) [2410.07377](http://arxiv.org/abs/2410.07377v1): Constraining Reionization with Lyα Damping-Wing Absorption in   Galaxy Spectra: A Machine Learning Model Based on Reionization Simulations

<p> Hyunbae Park, Intae Jung, Hidenobu Yajima, Jenny Sorce, Paul R. Shapiro, Kyungjin Ahn, Pierre Ocvirk, Romain Teyssier, Gustavo Yepes, Ilian T. Iliev, Joseph S. W. Lewis </p>
<p>
Recently, NIRSpec PRISM/CLEAR observations by JWST have begun providing rest-frame UV continuum measurements of galaxies at z\gtrsim7, revealing signatures of Ly\alpha damping-wing (DW) absorption by the intergalactic medium (IGM). We develop a methodology to constrain the global ionization fraction of the IGM (Q_{\rm HII}) using low-resolution spectra, employing the random forest classification (RFC) method. We construct mock spectra using the simulated galaxies and the IGM from the Cosmic Dawn II simulation and train RFC models to estimate Q_{\rm HII} at the redshift of the source and to detect the presence of a damped Ly\alpha absorber (DLA). We find that individual galaxy spectra with spectral bins between 1220 and 1270 {\AA} and with signal-to-noise ratios greater than 20 can place tight constraints on Q_{\rm HII}, provided the UV continuum is accurately modeled. This method is particularly effective for the early phase of reionization (Q_{\rm HII}&lt;50&percnt;), when the IGM opacity is high in the DW. As a demonstration, we apply our model to existing NIRSpec PRISM/CLEAR spectra, placing upper bounds of Q_{\rm HII}=59.6&percnt;, 5.6&percnt;, and 18.5&percnt; at z=7.7,~9.4, and 10.6, respectively, with 68&percnt; confidence, though several modeling uncertainties remain to be discussed. These constraints favor late-starting reionization models, where \gtrsim 80&percnt; of the IGM is ionized after z=8. We conclude that high SNR observations of carefully selected targets around z~7-9 can effectively constrain reionization models.
</p>
<p> <b> Published: </b> 2024-10-09T18:47:59Z </p>
<p> <b> Updated: </b> 2024-10-09T18:47:59Z </p>
<p> <b> Comments: </b> 20 pages, 11 figures, submitted to ApJ </p>
<p> <b> PDF: </b> <a href="http://arxiv.org/pdf/2410.07377v1"> http://arxiv.org/pdf/2410.07377v1 </a> </p>

### 36) [2410.07340](http://arxiv.org/abs/2410.07340v1): Here There Be (Dusty) Monsters: High Redshift AGN are Dustier Than Their   Hosts

<p> Madisyn Brooks, Raymond C. Simons, Jonathan R. Trump, Anthony J. Taylor, Bren Backhaus, Kelcey Davis, Véronique Buat, Nikko J. Cleri, Steven L. Finkelstein, Michaela Hirschmann, Benne W. Holwerda, Dale D. Kocevski, Anton M. Koekemoer, Ray A. Lucas, Fabio Pacucci, Lise-Marie Seillé </p>
<p>
JWST spectroscopy has discovered a population of z \gtrsim 3.5 galaxies with broad Balmer emission lines, and narrow forbidden lines, that are consistent with hosting active galactic nuclei (AGN). Many of these systems, now known as ``little red dots" (LRDs), are compact and have unique colors that are very red in the optical/near-infrared and blue in the ultraviolet. The relative contribution of galaxy starlight and AGN to these systems remains uncertain, especially for the galaxies with unusual blue+red spectral energy distributions. In this work, we use Balmer decrements to measure the independent dust attenuation of the broad and narrow emission-line components of a sample of 29 broad-line AGN identified from three public JWST spectroscopy surveys: CEERS, JADES, and RUBIES. Stacking the narrow components from the spectra of 25 sources with broad H\rm{\alpha} and no broad H\rm{\beta} results in a median narrow H\rm{\alpha}/H\rm{\beta} = 2.47^{+0.05}_{-0.05} (consistent with A_{v} = 0) and broad H\rm{\alpha}/H\rm{\beta} &gt; 8.85 (A_{v} &gt; 3.63). The narrow and broad Balmer decrements imply little-to-no attenuation of the narrow emission lines, which are consistent with being powered by star formation and located on larger physical scales. Meanwhile, the lower limit in broad H\rm{\alpha}/H\rm{\beta} decrement, with broad H\rm{\beta} undetected in the stacked spectrum of 25 broad-H\rm{\alpha} AGN, implies significant dust attenuation of the broad-line emitting region that is presumably associated with the central AGN. Our results indicate that these systems, on average, are consistent with heavily dust-attenuated AGN powering the red parts of their SED while their blue UV emission is powered by unattenuated star formation in the host galaxy.
</p>
<p> <b> Published: </b> 2024-10-09T18:00:19Z </p>
<p> <b> Updated: </b> 2024-10-09T18:00:19Z </p>
<p> <b> Comments: </b> 4 figures, 3 tables </p>
<p> <b> PDF: </b> <a href="http://arxiv.org/pdf/2410.07340v1"> http://arxiv.org/pdf/2410.07340v1 </a> </p>

### 37) [2410.06960](http://arxiv.org/abs/2410.06960v1): Blowing star formation away in AGN Hosts (BAH) -- II. Investigating the   origin of the H2 emission excess in nearby galaxies with JWST MIRI

<p> Rogemar A. Riffel, Gabriel L. Souza-Oliveira, José Henrique Costa-Souza, Nadia L. Zakamska, Thaisa Storchi-Bergmann, Rogério Riffel </p>
<p>
We use James Webb Space Telescope (JWST) Mid-Infrared Instrument (MIRI) medium-resolution spectrometer (MRS) observations of UGC 8782, CGCG 012-070 and NGC 3884 to investigate the origin of the H_2 emission. These three nearby AGN hosts are known to present H_2 emission excess relative to star-forming galaxies, as traced by the H_2 S(3)/PAH_{\rm 11.3\mu m} line ratio. For every spaxel, we also measure the velocity width (W_{\rm 80}) of H_2 S(3). We find that the distribution of H_2 in the space of these parameters - H_2/PAH and its velocity width - is bimodal: one cluster of points shows approximately constant values of W_{\rm 80}, while the other cluster exhibits a strong correlation between W_{\rm 80} and H_2/PAH. We estimated the temperature of the H_2 gas assuming a power-law distribution and find flatter distributions in regions where a correlation between W_{\rm 80} and H_2 S(3)/PAH_{\rm 11.3\mu m} is observed. Additionally, we observed a correlation between the [Fe II]_{\rm 5.34 \mu m} (a known shock tracer) and the H_2 emission. This indicates that the excess H_2 emission excess is associated to shock heating of the gas, generated by outflows or by the interaction of the radio jet with the ambient gas.
</p>
<p> <b> Published: </b> 2024-10-09T14:57:19Z </p>
<p> <b> Updated: </b> 2024-10-09T14:57:19Z </p>
<p> <b> Comments: </b> 12 pages, 5 figures, submitted to ApJ. Comments are welcome </p>
<p> <b> PDF: </b> <a href="http://arxiv.org/pdf/2410.06960v1"> http://arxiv.org/pdf/2410.06960v1 </a> </p>

### 38) [2410.06697](http://arxiv.org/abs/2410.06697v1): JWST-IPA: Chemical Inventory and Spatial Mapping of Ices in the   Protostar HOPS370 -- Evidence for an Opacity Hole and Thermal Processing of   Ices

<p> Himanshu Tyagi, Manoj P., Mayank Narang, S T. Megeath, Will Robson M. Rocha, Nashanty Brunken, Adam E. Rubinstein, Robert A. Gutermuth, Neal J. Evans, Ewine van Dishoeck, Sam Federman, Dan M. Watson, David A. Neufeld, Guillem Anglada, Henrik Beuther, Alessio Caratti o Garatti, Leslie W. Looney, Pooneh Nazari, Mayra Osorio, Thomas Stanke, Yao-Lun Yang, Tyler L. Bourke, William J. Fischer, Elise Furlan, Joel D. Green, Nolan Habel, Pamela Klaassen, Nicole Karnath, Hendrik Linz, James Muzzerolle, John J. Tobin, Prabhani Atnagulov, Rohan Rahatgaonkar, Patrick D. Sheehan, Katerina Slavicinska, Amelia M. Stutz, Łukasz Tychoniec, Scott J. Wolk </p>
<p>
The composition of protoplanetary disks, and hence the initial conditions of planet formation, may be strongly influenced by the infall and thermal processing of material during the protostellar phase. Composition of dust and ice in protostellar envelopes, shaped by energetic processes driven by the protostar, serves as the fundamental building material for planets and complex organic molecules. As part of the JWST GO program, "Investigating Protostellar Accretion" (IPA), we observed an intermediate-mass protostar HOPS 370 (OMC2-FIR3) using NIRSpec/IFU and MIRI/MRS. This study presents the gas and ice phase chemical inventory revealed with the JWST in the spectral range of ~2.9 to 28 \mum and explores the spatial variation of volatile ice species in the protostellar envelope. We find evidence for thermal processing of ice species throughout the inner envelope. We present the first high-spatial resolution (~ 80 au) maps of key volatile ice species H_{2}O, CO_{2}, ^{13}CO_2, CO, and OCN^-, which reveal a highly structured and inhomogeneous density distribution of the protostellar envelope, with a deficiency of ice column density that coincides with the jet/outflow shocked knots. Further, we observe high relative crystallinity of H_{2}O ice around the shocked knot seen in the H_2 and OH wind/outflow, which can be explained by a lack of outer colder material in the envelope along the line of sight due to the irregular structure of the envelope. These observations show clear evidence of thermal processing of the ices in the inner envelope, close to the outflow cavity walls, heated by the luminous protostar.
</p>
<p> <b> Published: </b> 2024-10-09T09:05:14Z </p>
<p> <b> Updated: </b> 2024-10-09T09:05:14Z </p>
<p> <b> Comments: </b> Submitted to ApJ. Main text:16 pages with 11 figures </p>
<p> <b> PDF: </b> <a href="http://arxiv.org/pdf/2410.06697v1"> http://arxiv.org/pdf/2410.06697v1 </a> </p>

### 39) [2410.06257](http://arxiv.org/abs/2410.06257v1): UNCOVER: 404 Error -- Models Not Found for the Triply Imaged Little Red   Dot A2744-QSO1

<p> Yilun Ma, Jenny E. Greene, David J. Setton, Marta Volonteri, Joel Leja, Bingjie Wang, Rachel Bezanson, Gabriel Brammer, Sam E. Cutler, Pratika Dayal, Pieter van Dokkum, Lukas J. Furtak, Karl Glazebrook, Andy D. Goulding, Anna de Graaff, Vasily Kokorev, Ivo Labbe, Richard Pan, Sedona H. Price, John R. Weaver, Christina C. Williams, Katherine E. Whitaker, Adi Zitrin </p>
<p>
JWST has revealed an abundance of compact, red objects at z\approx5-8 dubbed "little red dots" (LRDs), whose SEDs display a faint blue UV continuum followed by a steep rise in the optical. Despite extensive study of their characteristic V-shaped SEDs, the nature of LRDs remains unknown. We present a new analysis of the NIRSpec/PRISM spectrum of A2744-QSO1, a triply imaged LRD at z=7.04 from the UNCOVER survey. The spectrum shows a strong Balmer break and broad Balmer emission lines, both of which are difficult to explain with models invoking exclusively AGN or stellar contributions. Our fiducial model decomposes the spectrum into a post-starburst galaxy dominating the UV-optical continuum and a reddened AGN being sub-dominant at all wavelength and contributing at ~20&percnt; level. However, our most credible model infers a stellar mass of M_\star\approx 4\times10^9\,\mathrm{M_\odot} within a radius of r_\mathrm{e}&lt;30\,pc, driving its central density to the highest among observations to date. This high central density could be explained if A2744-QSO-1 is the early-forming core of a modern-day massive elliptical galaxy that later puffed up via the inside-out growth channel. The models also necessitate an unusually steep dust law to preserve the strong break strength, though this steepness may be explained by a deficit of large dust grains. It is also probable that these challenges reflect our ignorance of A2744-QSO1's true nature. Future variability and reverberation mapping studies could help disentangle the galaxy and AGN contribution to the continuum, and deeper redder observations could also unveil the dust properties in LRDs.
</p>
<p> <b> Published: </b> 2024-10-08T18:00:05Z </p>
<p> <b> Updated: </b> 2024-10-08T18:00:05Z </p>
<p> <b> Comments: </b> 19 pages, 7 figures, 2 tables. Submitted to ApJ. Comments are welcome </p>
<p> <b> PDF: </b> <a href="http://arxiv.org/pdf/2410.06257v1"> http://arxiv.org/pdf/2410.06257v1 </a> </p>

### 40) [2410.06252](http://arxiv.org/abs/2410.06252v1): Force-feeding Supermassive Black Holes with Dissipative Dark Matter

<p> Matthew R. Buckley, Nicolas Fernandez </p>
<p>
Supermassive black holes with masses \gtrsim 10^9\,M_\odot have been discovered by JWST at high redshifts (z~ 7). It is difficult to explain such objects as the result of accretive growth of stellar-mass seeds, as the rate at which baryons can be fed to the black hole is limited by the radiation pressure of the infalling matter. In this paper, we propose a new mechanism to create the early progenitors: the collapse of small dark matter halos through a dissipative cooling mechanism in the dark sector. These small black holes can then be efficiently fed with additional dissipative dark matter due to the comparatively weak interactions between the dark radiation and dark matter, which results in a very short Eddington time and high accretion rates.
</p>
<p> <b> Published: </b> 2024-10-08T18:00:01Z </p>
<p> <b> Updated: </b> 2024-10-08T18:00:01Z </p>
<p> <b> Comments: </b> 11 pages, 3 figures </p>
<p> <b> PDF: </b> <a href="http://arxiv.org/pdf/2410.06252v1"> http://arxiv.org/pdf/2410.06252v1 </a> </p>

### 41) [2410.06178](http://arxiv.org/abs/2410.06178v1): Magnetic Fields Under Feedback: A Case Study of the Massive Star-Forming   Hub G34.26+0.15

<p> Zacariyya A. Khan, Kate Pattle, Sarah F. Graves </p>
<p>
We present 850\mum polarized observations of the molecular cloud G34.26+0.15 taken using the POL-2 polarimeter mounted on the James Clerk Maxwell Telescope (JCMT). G34.26+0.15 is a hub-filament system with ongoing high-mass star-formation, containing multiple HII regions. We extend the Histogram of Relative Orientations technique with an alternative application that considers the alignment of the magnetic field to the filaments and a HII region boundary, denoted as the filament alignment factor (\xi_{F}) and the ellipse alignment factor (\xi_{E}) respectively. Using these metrics, we find that, although in general the magnetic field aligns parallel to the filamentary structure within the system in the north-west, the magnetic field structure of G34.26+0.15 has been radically reshaped by the expansion of an evolved HII region in the south-east, which itself may have triggered further high-mass star formation in the cloud. Thus, we suggest high-mass star formation is both occurring through mass accretion as per the hub-filament model from one side, and through compression of gas under stellar feedback from the other. We also use HARP observations of C^{18}O from the CHIMPS survey to estimate the magnetic field strength across the cloud, finding strengths of ~0.5-1.4 mG.
</p>
<p> <b> Published: </b> 2024-10-08T16:29:51Z </p>
<p> <b> Updated: </b> 2024-10-08T16:29:51Z </p>
<p> <b> Comments: </b> 16 pages, 15 figures, 1 table, accepted for publication in MNRAS </p>
<p> <b> PDF: </b> <a href="http://arxiv.org/pdf/2410.06178v1"> http://arxiv.org/pdf/2410.06178v1 </a> </p>

### 42) [2410.05891](http://arxiv.org/abs/2410.05891v1): Supermassive primordial black holes for the GHZ9 and UHZ1 observed by   the JWST

<p> Hai-Long Huang, Yu-Tong Wang, Yun-Song Piao </p>
<p>
The high redshift (z&gt;10) galaxies GHZ9 and UHZ1 observed by the James Webb Space Telescope (JWST) are very massive and have exceptionally high black hole-to-star mass ratios with the central black hole masses M\gtrsim 10^7\rm~M_\odot. In this paper, we explore the possibility that they are seeded by the supermassive primordial black holes (SMPBHs), which came into being in the very early universe, with initial masses ~ 10^7\rm~M_\odot. We present the self-similar accretion solutions for SMPBHs, and find that the mass growth of SMPBHs during pregalactic era may be negligible. These SMPBHs, when the redshift z\lesssim 20, can accelerate seeding high-redshift galaxies and their baryonic content, and consequently explain the central supermassive black holes (SMBHs) of high-redshift massive galaxies through sub-Eddington accretion. According to our results, SMPBHs actually could lead to the existence of more massive SMBHs at higher redshifts compared to other SMBH seed scenarios, specially SMBHs with masses M\gtrsim 10^7~\rm M_\odot at z&gt;20 might only origin from SMPBHs, thus the corresponding observation can serve as a potential probe to PBHs.
</p>
<p> <b> Published: </b> 2024-10-08T10:34:13Z </p>
<p> <b> Updated: </b> 2024-10-08T10:34:13Z </p>
<p> <b> Comments: </b> 14 pages, 5 figures </p>
<p> <b> PDF: </b> <a href="http://arxiv.org/pdf/2410.05891v1"> http://arxiv.org/pdf/2410.05891v1 </a> </p>

### 43) [2410.05397](http://arxiv.org/abs/2410.05397v1): Polycyclic Aromatic Hydrocarbon and CO(2-1) Emission at 50-150 pc Scales   in 66 Nearby Galaxies

<p> Ryan Chown, Adam K. Leroy, Karin Sandstrom, Jeremy Chastenet, Jessica Sutter, Eric W. Koch, Hannah B. Koziol, Lukas Neumann, Jiayi Sun, Thomas G. Williams, Dalya Baron, Gagandeep S. Anand, Ashley T. Barnes, Zein Bazzi, Francesco Belfiore, Alberto Bolatto, Mederic Boquien, Yixian Cao, Melanie Chevance, Dario Colombo, Daniel A. Dale, Oleg V. Egorov, Cosima Eibensteiner, Eric Emsellem, Hamid Hassani, Jonathan D. Henshaw, Hao He, Jaeyeon Kim, Kathryn Kreckel, Sharon E. Meidt, Eric J. Murphy, Elias K. Oakes, Eve C. Ostriker, Hsi-An Pan, Debosmita Pathak, Erik Rosolowsky, Sumit K. Sarbadhicary, Eva Schinnerer, Yu-Hsuan Teng </p>
<p>
Combining Atacama Large Millimeter/sub-millimeter Array CO(2-1) mapping and JWST near- and mid-infrared imaging, we characterize the relationship between CO(2-1) and polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbon (PAH) emission at ~100 pc resolution in 66 nearby star-forming galaxies, expanding the sample size from previous ~100 pc resolution studies by more than an order of magnitude. Focusing on regions of galaxies where most of the gas is likely to be molecular, we find strong correlations between CO(2-1) and 3.3 micron, 7.7 micron, and 11.3 micron PAH emission, estimated from JWST's F335M, F770W, and F1130W filters. We derive power law relations between CO(2-1) and PAH emission, which have indices in the range 0.8-1.2, implying relatively weak variations in the observed CO-to-PAH ratios across the regions that we study. We find that CO-to-PAH ratios and scaling relationships near HII regions are similar to those in diffuse sight lines. The main difference between the two types of regions is that sight lines near HII regions show higher intensities in all tracers. Galaxy centers, on the other hand, show higher overall intensities and enhanced CO-to-PAH ratios compared to galaxy disks. Individual galaxies show 0.19 dex scatter in the normalization of CO at fixed I_PAH and this normalization anti-correlates with specific star formation rate (SFR/M*) and correlates with stellar mass. We provide a prescription that accounts for these galaxy-to-galaxy variations and represents our best current empirical predictor to estimate CO(2-1) intensity from PAH emission, which allows one to take advantage of JWST's excellent sensitivity and resolution to trace cold gas.
</p>
<p> <b> Published: </b> 2024-10-07T18:02:21Z </p>
<p> <b> Updated: </b> 2024-10-07T18:02:21Z </p>
<p> <b> Comments: </b> 21 pages, 4 figures, 3 tables. Submitted to ApJ </p>
<p> <b> PDF: </b> <a href="http://arxiv.org/pdf/2410.05397v1"> http://arxiv.org/pdf/2410.05397v1 </a> </p>

### 44) [2410.05377](http://arxiv.org/abs/2410.05377v1): Age-dating early quiescent galaxies: high star-formation efficiency, but   consistent with direct, higher-redshift observations

<p> Crispin Turner, Sandro Tacchella, Francesco D'Eugenio, Stefano Carniani, Mirko Curti, Karl Glazebrook, Benjamin D. Johnson, Seunghwan Lim, Tobias Looser, Roberto Maiolino, Themiya Nanayakkara, Jenny T. Wan </p>
<p>
We present a detailed analysis of JWST/NIRSpec and NIRCam observations of ZF-UDS-7329, a massive, quiescent galaxy at redshift z=3.2, which has been put forward to challenge cosmology and galaxy formation physics. Our study extends previous works by focusing on the impact of different star formation history (SFH) priors, stellar libraries, metallicity, and initial mass function assumptions. Our results show that ZF-UDS-7329, with a formed stellar mass of M_{\star} \approx 10^{11.4}~M_{\odot} and a specific star formation rate of \mathrm{sSFR} \approx 0.03 Gyr^{-1}, formed efficiently in the first billion years of the Universe. In agreement with previous work, we find that the spectrum is consistent with mass-weighted stellar ages of 1.3-1.8 Gyr, depending on the SFH prior used. A physically motivated rising SFH prior makes the formation history of ZF-UDS-7329 compatible with stellar mass and star-formation rate estimates of high-redshift (z&gt;6) galaxies. Using NIRCam imaging, we identify a colour gradient indicative of an old, quiescent bulge and a younger disc component, as expected from a complex formation history. The inferred SFH is consistent a high stellar fraction of f_{\star}=M_{\star}/(f_b \cdot M_{\rm h}) \approx 100&percnt; at z=7-12, implying an extremely high integrated star-formation efficiency. However, when considering cosmic variance and possible mergers as expected in over-dense environments - as traced by ZF-UDS-7329 - the stellar fractions could be reduced to f_{\star} \approx 50&percnt;, which is more consistent with galaxy formation models and the stellar-to-halo mass relation at lower redshifts. We conclude that ZF-UDS-7329 forms extremely efficient in the early universe, but does not necessitate unseen galaxies at higher redshifts since the inferred SFR of ancestors are consistent with those seen in z&gt;6 galaxies.
</p>
<p> <b> Published: </b> 2024-10-07T18:00:01Z </p>
<p> <b> Updated: </b> 2024-10-07T18:00:01Z </p>
<p> <b> Comments: </b> 15 pages and 8 figures (+appendix), submitted to MNRAS </p>
<p> <b> PDF: </b> <a href="http://arxiv.org/pdf/2410.05377v1"> http://arxiv.org/pdf/2410.05377v1 </a> </p>

### 45) [2410.04227](http://arxiv.org/abs/2410.04227v2): Star formation in cosmic-dawn galaxies

<p> Sandro Tacchella </p>
<p>
In the first two years of operation JWST has delivered key new insights into the formation and evolution of galaxies in the early Universe. By combining imaging with spectroscopy, we discovered and characterised the first generation of galaxies, probing the Universe at an age of 300 million years. While the current JWST observations confirm the overall cosmological framework and the paradigm of galaxy formation, there are also surprises, including large abundances of bright galaxies and accreting black holes in the early Universe. These observations, together with detailed measurements of the stellar populations and morphological structure, will help us to develop in the coming years a more refined understanding of the baryonic physics (including star formation and feedback processes) that leads to the formation of mature systems at later epochs, including our own Milky Way galaxy.
</p>
<p> <b> Published: </b> 2024-10-05T16:56:09Z </p>
<p> <b> Updated: </b> 2024-10-17T09:33:42Z </p>
<p> <b> Comments: </b> To be published in "Astrophysics: The James Webb Space Telescope:   from first light to new world views", proceedings of the Pontifical Academy   of Sciences workshop February 27-29 2024, Vatican City, E.F. van Dishoeck and   G. Consolmagno (eds) </p>
<p> <b> PDF: </b> <a href="http://arxiv.org/pdf/2410.04227v2"> http://arxiv.org/pdf/2410.04227v2 </a> </p>

### 46) [2410.03830](http://arxiv.org/abs/2410.03830v1): Suppressed accretion onto massive black hole binaries surrounded by thin   disks

<p> Christopher Tiede, Jonathan Zrake, Andrew MacFadyen, Zoltan Haiman </p>
<p>
We demonstrate that gas disks around binary systems might deliver gas to the binary components only when the circumbinary disk is relatively warm. We present new grid-based hydrodynamics simulations, performed with the binary on the grid and a locally isothermal equation of state, in which the binary is seen to functionally ``stop accreting'' if the orbital Mach number in the disk exceeds a threshold value of about 40. Above this threshold, the disk continues to extract angular momentum from the binary orbit, but it delivers very little mass to the black holes, and instead piles up mass in a ring surrounding the binary. This ring will eventually become viscously relaxed and deliver mass to the binary at the large-scale inflow rate. However we show that the timescale for such relaxation can far exceed the implied binary lifetime. We demonstrate that the ability of a binary-disk system to equilibrate is dependent on the efficiency at which accretion streams deposit mass onto the binary; which in turn is highly sensitive to the thermodynamic conditions of the inner disk. If disks around massive black hole binaries do operate in such non-accreting regimes, it suggests these systems may be dimmer than their single black hole counterparts, but could exhibit dramatic re-brightening after the black holes in-spiral and merge. This dimming occurs at high photon energies, corresponding to the effective truncation of the circumbinary disk. As a result, such system may be underluminous in UV bands and missing X-ray emission entirely, potentially resembling the spectra of `Little Red Dots'' recently identified in JWST observations.
</p>
<p> <b> Published: </b> 2024-10-04T18:00:52Z </p>
<p> <b> Updated: </b> 2024-10-04T18:00:52Z </p>
<p> <b> Comments: </b> 9 pages and 4 figures </p>
<p> <b> PDF: </b> <a href="http://arxiv.org/pdf/2410.03830v1"> http://arxiv.org/pdf/2410.03830v1 </a> </p>

### 47) [2409.08328](http://arxiv.org/abs/2409.08328v2): JWST Reveals Bulge-dominated Star-forming Galaxies at Cosmic Noon

<p> Chloë E. Benton, Erica J. Nelson, Tim B. Miller, Rachel Bezanson, Justus Gibson, Abigail I Hartley, Marco Martorano, Sedona H. Price, Katherine A. Suess, Arjen van der Wel, Pieter van Dokkum, John R. Weaver, Katherine E. Whitaker </p>
<p>
Hubble Space Telescope imaging shows that most star-forming galaxies at cosmic noon -- the peak of cosmic star formation history -- appear disk-dominated, leaving the origin of the dense cores in their quiescent descendants unclear. With the James Webb Space Telescope's (JWST) high-resolution imaging to 5 {\mu}m, we can now map the rest-frame near-infrared emission, a much closer proxy for stellar mass distribution, in these massive galaxies. We selected 70 star-forming galaxies with 10&lt;log(M)&lt;12 and 1.5&lt;z&lt;3 in the CEERS survey and compare their morphologies in the rest-frame optical to those in the rest-frame near-IR. While the bulk of these galaxies are disk-dominated in 1.5 {\mu}m (rest-frame optical) imaging, they appear more bulge-dominated at 4.4 {\mu}m (rest-frame near-infrared). Our analysis reveals that in massive star-forming galaxies at z~2, the radial surface brightness profiles steepen significantly, from a slope of ~0.3/dex at 1.5 {\mu}m to ~1.4/dex at 4.4 {\mu}m within radii &lt; 1 kpc. Additionally, we find their total flux contained within the central 1 kpc is approximately 7 times higher in F444W than in F150W. In rest-optical emission, a galaxy's central surface density appears to be the strongest indicator of whether it is quenched or star-forming. Our most significant finding is that at redder wavelengths, the central surface density ratio between quiescent and star-forming galaxies dramatically decreases from ~10 to ~1. This suggests the high central densities associated with galaxy quenching are already in place during the star-forming phase, imposing new constraints on the transition from star formation to quiescence.
</p>
<p> <b> Published: </b> 2024-09-12T18:00:05Z </p>
<p> <b> Updated: </b> 2024-10-16T16:52:13Z </p>
<p> <b> Comments: </b> 9 pages, 5 figures, published in ApJL </p>
<p> <b> PDF: </b> <a href="http://arxiv.org/pdf/2409.08328v2"> http://arxiv.org/pdf/2409.08328v2 </a> </p>

### 48) [2409.00169](http://arxiv.org/abs/2409.00169v2): ASTRODEEP-JWST: NIRCam-HST multiband photometry and redshifts for half a   million sources in six extragalactic deep fields

<p> E. Merlin, P. Santini, D. Paris, M. Castellano, A. Fontana, T. Treu, S. L. Finkelstein, J. S. Dunlop, P. Arrabal Haro, M. Bagley, K. Boyett, A. Calabrò, M. Correnti, K. Davis, M. Dickinson, C. T. Donnan, H. C. Ferguson, F. Fortuni, M. Giavalisco, K. Glazebrook, A. Grazian, N. A. Grogin, N. Hathi, M. Hirschmann, J. S. Kartaltepe, L. J. Kewley, A. Kirkpatrick, D. D. Kocevski, A. M. Koekemoer, G. Leung, J. M. Lotz, R. A. Lucas, D. K. Magee, D. Marchesini, S. Mascia, D. J. McLeod, R. J. McLure, T. Nanayakkara, L. Napolitano, M. Nonino, C. Papovich, L. Pentericci, P. G. Pérez-González, N. Pirzkal, S. Ravindranath, G. Roberts-Borsani, R. S. Somerville, M. Trenti, J. R. Trump, B. Vulcani, X. Wang, P. J. Watson, S. M. Wilkins, G. Yang, L. Y. A. Yung </p>
<p>
We present a set of photometric catalogs primarily aimed at providing the community with a comprehensive database for the study of galaxy populations in the high redshift Universe. The set gathers data from eight JWST NIRCam observational programs, targeting the Abell 2744 (GLASS-JWST, UNCOVER, DDT2756 and GO3990), EGS (CEERS), COSMOS and UDS (PRIMER), and GOODS North and South (JADES and NGDEEP) deep fields, for a total area of ~0.2 sq. degrees. Photometric estimates are obtained by means of well-established techniques, including tailored improvements designed to enhance the performance on the specific dataset. We also include new measurements from HST archival data, thus collecting 16 bands spanning from 0.44 to 4.44 \mum. A grand total of ~530 thousand sources is detected on stacks of NIRCam 3.56 and 4.44 \mum mosaics. We assess the photometric accuracy by comparing fluxes and colors against archival catalogs. We also provide photometric redshift estimates, statistically validated against a large set of robust spectroscopic data. The catalogs are publicly available on the Astrodeep website.
</p>
<p> <b> Published: </b> 2024-08-30T18:00:00Z </p>
<p> <b> Updated: </b> 2024-10-09T14:45:02Z </p>
<p> <b> Comments: </b> 28 pages, 16 figures; accepted for publication on Astronomy &   Astrophysics </p>
<p> <b> PDF: </b> <a href="http://arxiv.org/pdf/2409.00169v2"> http://arxiv.org/pdf/2409.00169v2 </a> </p>

### 49) [2408.10735](http://arxiv.org/abs/2408.10735v2): On the kinematic nature of apparent discs at high redshifts: Local   counterparts are not dominated by ordered rotation but by tangentially   anisotropic random motion

<p> Bitao Wang, Yingjie Peng, Michele Cappellari, Hua Gao, Houjun Mo </p>
<p>
It is not straightforward to physically interpret the apparent morphology of galaxies. Recent observations by James Webb Space Telescope (JWST) revealed a dominant galaxy population at high redshifts (z&gt;2) that were visually classified as discs for their flattened shapes and/or exponential light profiles. The extensively accepted interpretation is that they are dynamically cold discs supported by bulk rotation. However, it is long known that flattened shapes and exponential profiles are not exclusive for rotating disc structure. To break degeneracy and assess the rotational support of typical high-z galaxies in the JWST samples, those with active star formation and stellar masses \mathrm{lg}(\mathcal{M}_{\star}/\mathcal{M}_{\odot})~9, we study the kinematics of their equal-mass counterparts at z=0. While these local star-forming low-mass galaxies are photometrically similar to real dynamically cold discs, they are not supported by ordered rotation but primarily by random motion, and their flattened shapes result largely from tangential orbital anisotropy. Given the empirical and theoretical evidence that young galaxies are dynamically hotter at higher redshifts, our results suggest that the high-z JWST galaxies may not be cold discs but are dynamically warm/hot galaxies with flattened shapes driven by anisotropy. While both having low rotational support, local low-mass galaxies possess oblate shapes, contrasting the prolate shapes (i.e. cigar-like) of low-mass systems at high redshifts. Such shape transition (prolate\Rightarrowoblate) indicates an associated change in orbital anisotropy (radial\Rightarrowtangential), with roots likely in the assembly of their host dark matter halos.
</p>
<p> <b> Published: </b> 2024-08-20T11:06:39Z </p>
<p> <b> Updated: </b> 2024-10-08T12:17:22Z </p>
<p> <b> Comments: </b> 11 pages, 4 figures. ApJL accepted </p>
<p> <b> PDF: </b> <a href="http://arxiv.org/pdf/2408.10735v2"> http://arxiv.org/pdf/2408.10735v2 </a> </p>

### 50) [2408.08350](http://arxiv.org/abs/2408.08350v2): MSA-3D: dissecting galaxies at z~1 with high spatial and spectral   resolution

<p> Ivana Barišić, Tucker Jones, Kris Mortensen, Themiya Nanayakkara, Yuguang Chen, Ryan Sanders, James S. Bullock, Kevin Bundy, Claude-André Faucher-Giguère, Karl Glazebrook, Alaina Henry, Mengting Ju, Matthew Malkan, Takahiro Morishita, Danail Obreschkow, Namrata Roy, Juan M. Espejo Salcedo, Alice E. Shapley, Tommaso Treu, Xin Wang, Kyle B. Westfall </p>
<p>
Integral field spectroscopy (IFS) is a powerful tool for understanding the formation of galaxies across cosmic history. We present the observing strategy and first results of MSA-3D, a novel JWST program using multi-object spectroscopy in a slit-stepping strategy to produce IFS data cubes. The program observed 43 normal star-forming galaxies at redshifts 0.5 \lesssim z \lesssim 1.5, corresponding to the epoch when spiral thin-disk galaxies of the modern Hubble sequence are thought to emerge, obtaining kpc-scale maps of rest-frame optical nebular emission lines with spectral resolution R~eq2700. Here we describe the multiplexed slit-stepping method which is &gt;15 times more efficient than the NIRSpec IFS mode for our program. As an example of the data quality, we present a case study of an individual galaxy at z=1.104 (stellar mass M_{*} = 10^{10.3}~M_{\odot}, star formation rate~=3~M_{\odot} yr^{-1}) with prominent face-on spiral structure. We show that the galaxy exhibits a rotationally supported disk with moderate velocity dispersion (\sigma = 36^{+5}_{-4}~\kms), a negative radial metallicity gradient (-0.020\pm0.002~dex\,kpc^{-1}), a dust attenuation gradient, and an exponential star formation rate density profile which closely matches the stellar continuum. These properties are characteristic of local spirals, indicating that mature galaxies are in place at z~1. We also describe the customized data reduction and original cube-building software pipelines which we have developed to exploit the powerful slit-stepping technique. Our results demonstrate the ability of JWST slit-stepping to study galaxy populations at intermediate to high redshifts, with data quality similar to current surveys of the z~0.1 universe.
</p>
<p> <b> Published: </b> 2024-08-15T18:00:01Z </p>
<p> <b> Updated: </b> 2024-10-10T19:15:26Z </p>
<p> <b> Comments: </b> 24 pages, 12 figures, 1 table; submitted to ApJ, comments welcome.   Our custom designed data reduction pipeline (MSA3D) and example processed   data-cube will be publicly released before the JWST Cycle 4 deadline. MSA3D   package on GitHub: https://github.com/barisiciv/msa3d.git </p>
<p> <b> PDF: </b> <a href="http://arxiv.org/pdf/2408.08350v2"> http://arxiv.org/pdf/2408.08350v2 </a> </p>

### 51) [2407.19357](http://arxiv.org/abs/2407.19357v2): Type Ia Supernovae from First-generation Stars

<p> Zhenwei Li, Lifan Wang, Zhanwen Han, Xuefei Chen </p>
<p>
Type Ia Supernovae (SNe Ia) discovered at redshift z\lesssim2.5 are presumed to be produced from Population (Pop) I/II stars. {In this work, we investigate the production of SNe Ia from Pop III binaries in the cosmological framework. We derive the SN Ia rate as a function of redshift under a theoretical context for the production of first generation stars and emanate the likelihood of their detection by the James Webb Space Telescope (JWST).} {Assuming the initial stellar mass function (IMF) favors low-mass stars as from recent numerical simulations, we found Pop III stars may give rise to a considerable amount of SNe Ia at high redshift and Pop III stars may even be the dominant SN Ia producer at z \gtrsim 6.} {In an optimistic scenario, we expect ~ 1(2) SNe Ia from Pop III stars at z\approx 4(5) for a survey of area 300 \;\rm arcmin^2 during a 3\;\rm yr period with JWST. The same survey may record more than ~ 400 SNe Ia at lower redshift (z\lesssim 2.5) but with only about one of them from Pop III progenitors. There will be ~ 6 Pop III SNe Ia in the same field of view at redshifts of 5-10.} Observational constraints on SN Ia rates at the redshift range of 5-10 can place crucial constraints on the IMF of Pop III stars.
</p>
<p> <b> Published: </b> 2024-07-28T01:06:02Z </p>
<p> <b> Updated: </b> 2024-10-09T10:23:22Z </p>
<p> <b> Comments: </b> 19 pages, 7 Figures. Minor updates to match the published version </p>
<p> <b> PDF: </b> <a href="http://arxiv.org/pdf/2407.19357v2"> http://arxiv.org/pdf/2407.19357v2 </a> </p>

### 52) [2407.15915](http://arxiv.org/abs/2407.15915v2): Mildly Super-Eddington Accretion Onto Slowly-Spinning Black Holes   Explains the X-Ray Weakness of the Little Red Dots

<p> Fabio Pacucci, Ramesh Narayan </p>
<p>
JWST has revealed a population of low-luminosity AGN at z&gt;4 in compact, red hosts (the "Little Red Dots", or LRDs), which are largely undetected in X-rays. We investigate this phenomenon using GRRMHD simulations of super-Eddington accretion onto a SMBH with M_\bullet=10^7 \,\rm M_\odot at z~6, representing the median population; the SEDs that we obtain are intrinsically X-ray weak. The highest levels of X-ray weakness occur in SMBHs accreting at mildly super-Eddington rates (1.4&lt;f_{\rm Edd}&lt;4) with zero spin, viewed at angles &gt;30^\circ from the pole. X-ray bolometric corrections in the observed 2-10 keV band reach ~10^4 at z=6, ~5 times higher than the highest constraint from X-ray stacking. Most SEDs are extraordinarily steep and soft in the X-rays (median photon index \Gamma=3.1, mode of \Gamma=4.4). SEDs strong in the X-rays have harder spectra with a high-energy bump when viewed near the hot (&gt;10^8 K) and highly-relativistic jet, whereas X-ray weak SEDs lack this feature. Viewing a SMBH within 10^\circ of its pole, where beaming enhances the X-ray emission, has a ~1.5&percnt; probability, matching the LRD X-ray detection rate. Next-generation observatories like AXIS will detect X-ray weak LRDs at z~6 from any viewing angle. Although many SMBHs in the LRDs are already estimated to accrete at super-Eddington rates, our model explains 50&percnt; of their population by requiring that their masses are overestimated by a mere factor of ~3. In summary, we suggest that LRDs host slowly spinning SMBHs accreting at mildly super-Eddington rates, with large covering factors and broad emission lines enhanced by strong winds, providing a self-consistent explanation for their X-ray weakness and complementing other models.
</p>
<p> <b> Published: </b> 2024-07-22T18:00:00Z </p>
<p> <b> Updated: </b> 2024-10-09T16:24:03Z </p>
<p> <b> Comments: </b> Accepted for publication in The Astrophysical Journal. 18 pages, 7   figures </p>
<p> <b> PDF: </b> <a href="http://arxiv.org/pdf/2407.15915v2"> http://arxiv.org/pdf/2407.15915v2 </a> </p>

### 53) [2407.14470](http://arxiv.org/abs/2407.14470v3): Low [O/Fe] Ratio in a Luminous Galaxy at the Early Cosmic Epoch   ($z>10$): Signature of Short Delay Time or Bright Hypernovae/Pair-Instability   Supernovae?

<p> Minami Nakane, Masami Ouchi, Kimihiko Nakajima, Yuichi Harikane, Nozomu Tominaga, Koh Takahashi, Daichi Kashino, Hiroto Yanagisawa, Kuria Watanabe, Ken'ichi Nomoto, Yuki Isobe, Moka Nishigaki, Miho N. Ishigaki, Yoshiaki Ono, Yui Takeda </p>
<p>
We present an [O/Fe] ratio of a luminous galaxy GN-z11 at z=10.60 derived with the deep public JWST/NIRSpec data. We fit the medium-resolution grating (G140M, G235M, and G395M) data with the model spectra consisting of BPASS-stellar and CLOUDY-nebular spectra in the rest-frame UV wavelength ranges with Fe absorption lines, carefully masking out the other emission and absorption lines in the same manner as previous studies conducted for lower redshift (z~ 2-6) galaxies with oxygen abundance measurements. We obtain an Fe-rich abundance ratio \mathrm{[O/Fe]}=-0.37^{+0.43}_{-0.22}, which is confirmed with the independent deep prism data as well as by the classic 1978 index method. This [O/Fe] measurement is lower than measured for star-forming galaxies at z~ 2-3. Because z=10.60 is an early epoch after the Big Bang (~ 430 Myr) and the first star formation (likely ~ 200 Myr), it is difficult to produce Fe by Type Ia supernovae (SNeIa) requiring sufficient delay time for white-dwarf formation and gas accretion. The Fe-rich abundance ratio in GN-z11 suggests that the delay time is short, or that the major Fe enrichment is not accomplished by SNeIa but bright hypernovae (BrHNe) and/or pair-instability supernovae (PISNe), where the yield models of BrHNe and PISNe explain Fe, Ne, and O abundance ratios of GN-z11. The [O/Fe] measurement is not too low to rule out the connection between GN-z11 and globular clusters (GCs) previously suggested by the nitrogen abundance, but rather supports the connection with a GC population at high [N/O] if a metal dilution process exists.
</p>
<p> <b> Published: </b> 2024-07-19T17:16:46Z </p>
<p> <b> Updated: </b> 2024-10-07T05:23:52Z </p>
<p> <b> Comments: </b> 13 pages, 11 figures, accepted for publication in ApJ </p>
<p> <b> PDF: </b> <a href="http://arxiv.org/pdf/2407.14470v3"> http://arxiv.org/pdf/2407.14470v3 </a> </p>

### 54) [2407.08643](http://arxiv.org/abs/2407.08643v2): JADES -- The Rosetta Stone of JWST-discovered AGN: deciphering the   intriguing nature of early AGN

<p> Ignas Juodžbalis, Xihan Ji, Roberto Maiolino, Francesco D'Eugenio, Jan Scholtz, Guido Risaliti, Andrew C. Fabian, Giovanni Mazzolari, Roberto Gilli, Isabella Prandoni, Santiago Arribas, Andrew J. Bunker, Stefano Carniani, Stéphane Charlot, Emma Curtis-Lake, Anna de Graaff, Kevin Hainline, Eleonora Parlanti, Michele Perna, Pablo G. Pérez-González, Brant Robertson, Sandro Tacchella, Hannah Übler, Christina C. Williams, Chris Willott, Joris Witstok </p>
<p>
JWST has discovered a large population of Active Galactic Nuclei (AGN) at high redshift. Many of these newly discovered AGN have broad permitted lines (typically H\alpha), but are extremely weak in the X-rays. Here we present the NIRSpec spectrum of the most extreme of these objects, GN-28074, an AGN at z=2.26 with prominent Balmer, Paschen and \HeI broad lines, and with the highest limit on the bolometric to X-ray luminosity ratio among all spectroscopically confirmed AGN in GOODS. This source is also characterized by a mid-IR excess, most likely associated with the AGN torus' hot dust. The high bolometric luminosity and moderate redshift of this AGN allow us to explore its properties more in depth relative to other JWST-discovered AGN. The NIRSpec spectrum reveals prominent, slightly blueshifted absorption of H\alpha, H\beta and \HeI\lambda10830. The Balmer absorption lines require gas with densities of n_{\rm H}&gt; 10^8~{\rm cm}^{-3}, inconsistent with an ISM origin, but fully consistent with clouds in the Broad Line Region (BLR). This finding suggests that at least part of the X-ray weakness is due to high (Compton thick) X-ray absorption by (dust-free) clouds in the BLR, or in its outer, slowly outflowing regions. GN-28074 is also extremely radio-weak. The radio weakness can also be explained in terms of absorption, as the inferred density of the clouds responsible for H\alpha absorption makes them optically thick to radio emission through free-free absorption. Alternatively, in this and other JWST-discovered AGN, the nuclear magnetic field may have not developed properly yet, resulting both in intrinsically weak radio emission and also lack of hot corona, hence intrinsic X-ray weakness. Finally, we show that recently proposed scenarios, invoking hyper-dense and ultra-metal-poor outflows or Raman scattering to explain the broad H\alpha, are completely ruled out.
</p>
<p> <b> Published: </b> 2024-07-11T16:23:28Z </p>
<p> <b> Updated: </b> 2024-10-16T16:07:39Z </p>
<p> <b> Comments: </b> 21 pages 8 figures in main text. Accepted by MNRAS, updated to   accepted version </p>
<p> <b> PDF: </b> <a href="http://arxiv.org/pdf/2407.08643v2"> http://arxiv.org/pdf/2407.08643v2 </a> </p>

### 55) [2405.05111](http://arxiv.org/abs/2405.05111v3): JWST FRESCO: a comprehensive census of H$β$+[OIII] emitters at   6.8<z<9.0 in the GOODS fields

<p> R. A. Meyer, P. A. Oesch, E. Giovinazzo, A. Weibel, G. Brammer, J. Matthee, R. P. Naidu, R. J. Bouwens, J. Chisholm, A. Covelo-Paz, Y. Fudamoto, M. Maseda, E. Nelson, I. Shivaei, M. Xiao, T. Herard-Demanche, G. D. Illingworth, J. Kerutt, I. Kramarenko, I. Labbe, E. Leonova, D. Magee, J. Matharu, G. Prieto Lyon, N. Reddy, D. Schaerer, A. Shapley, M. Stefanon, M. A. Wozniak, S. Wuyts </p>
<p>
We present the census of H\beta+[OIII] 4960,5008 \AA emitters at 6.8&lt;z&lt;9.0 from the JWST FRESCO survey over 124 arcmin^2 in the GOODS-North and GOODS-South fields. Our unbiased spectroscopic search results in 137 spectroscopically-confirmed galaxies at 6.8&lt;z&lt;9.0 with observed [OIII] fluxes f_{[OIII]}\gtrsim 1\times 10^{-18}\ \rm{ergs}\ \rm{s}^{-1} \ \rm{cm}^{-2}. The rest-frame optical line ratios of the median stacked spectrum (median M_{\rm{UV}}=-19.65^{+0.59}_{-1.05}) indicate negligible dust attenuation, low metallicity (12+\log(\rm{O/H})= 7.2-7.7) and a high ionisation parameter \log_{10}U ~eq -2.5. We find a factor \times 1.3 difference in the number density of 6.8&lt;z&lt;9.0 galaxies between GOODS-South and GOODS-North, which is caused by a single overdensity at 7.0&lt;z&lt;7.2 in GOODS-North. The bright end of the UV luminosity function of spectroscopically-confirmed [OIII] emitters is in good agreement with HST dropout-selected samples. Discrepancies between the observed [OIII] LF, [OIII]/UV ratio and [OIII] equivalent widths, and that predicted by theoretical models, suggest burstier star-formation histories and/or more heterogeneous metallicity and ionising conditions in z&gt;7 galaxies. We report a rapid decline of the [OIII] luminosity density at z\gtrsim 6-7 which cannot be explained by the evolution of the cosmic star-formation rate density. Finally we find that FRESCO detects in only 2h galaxies likely accounting for ~ 10-20&percnt; of the ionising budget at z=7-8 (assuming an escape fraction of 10%), raising the prospect of directly detecting a significant fraction of the sources of reionisation with JWST.
</p>
<p> <b> Published: </b> 2024-05-08T15:07:57Z </p>
<p> <b> Updated: </b> 2024-10-17T13:19:28Z </p>
<p> <b> Comments: </b> 20 pages + appendices. Accepted in MNRAS. Public catalogue release at   https://github.com/rameyer/fresco. V3: matching accepted version </p>
<p> <b> PDF: </b> <a href="http://arxiv.org/pdf/2405.05111v3"> http://arxiv.org/pdf/2405.05111v3 </a> </p>

### 56) [2404.16963](http://arxiv.org/abs/2404.16963v3): Dynamics of a Galaxy at z > 10 Explored by JWST Integral Field   Spectroscopy: Hints of Rotating Disk Suggesting Weak Feedback

<p> Yi Xu, Masami Ouchi, Hidenobu Yajima, Hajime Fukushima, Yuichi Harikane, Yuki Isobe, Kimihiko Nakajima, Minami Nakane, Yoshiaki Ono, Hiroya Umeda, Hiroto Yanagisawa, Yechi Zhang </p>
<p>
We investigate the dynamics of GN-z11, a luminous galaxy at z=10.60, carefully analyzing the public deep integral field spectroscopy (IFS) data taken with JWST NIRSpec IFU. While the observations of the IFS data originally targeted a He II clump near GN-z11, we find that CIII]\lambda\lambda1907,1909 emission from ionized gas at GN-z11 is bright and spatially extended significantly beyond the point-spread function (PSF). The spatially extended CIII emission of GN-z11 shows a velocity gradient, red- and blue-shifted components in the north and south directions, respectively, which cannot be explained by the variation of [CIII]\lambda1907/CIII]\lambda1909 line ratios. Assuming the velocity gradient is produced by disk rotation, we perform forward modeling with GalPak^{3D}, including the effects of PSF smearing and line blending, and obtain a rotation velocity of v_{rot}=257^{+138}_{-117} km s^{-1}, a velocity dispersion of \sigma_v=91^{+18}_{-32} km s^{-1}, and a ratio of v_{rot}/\sigma_v=2.83^{+1.82}_{-1.41}. The v_{rot}/\sigma_v value would suggest a rotation-dominated disk existing at z&gt;10 albeit with the large uncertainties. The rotation velocity agrees with those of numerical simulations predicting a rotating disk formed in the early universe under the condition of mass compaction and weak feedback. While the velocity gradient is consistent with the rotating disk solution, we recognize that galactic outflows can also explain the velocity gradient as well as the extended morphology and the high velocity dispersion found in the outskirt. Higher S/N and resolution data are necessary to conclude the physical origin of the velocity gradient in GN-z11.
</p>
<p> <b> Published: </b> 2024-04-25T18:24:03Z </p>
<p> <b> Updated: </b> 2024-10-09T04:17:34Z </p>
<p> <b> Comments: </b> Accepted for publication in ApJ </p>
<p> <b> PDF: </b> <a href="http://arxiv.org/pdf/2404.16963v3"> http://arxiv.org/pdf/2404.16963v3 </a> </p>

### 57) [2404.16200](http://arxiv.org/abs/2404.16200v4): JWST MIRI detections of H$α$ and [O III] and direct metallicity   measurement of the $z=10.17$ lensed galaxy MACS0647$-$JD

<p> Tiger Yu-Yang Hsiao, Javier Álvarez-Márquez, Dan Coe, Alejandro Crespo Gómez, Abdurro'uf, Pratika Dayal, Rebecca L. Larson, Arjan Bik, Carmen Blanco-Prieto, Luis Colina, Pablo Guillermo Pérez-González, Luca Costantin, Carlota Prieto-Jiménez, Angela Adamo, Larry D. Bradley, Christopher J. Conselice, Seiji Fujimoto, Lukas J. Furtak, Taylor A. Hutchison, Bethan L. James, Yolanda Jiménez-Teja, Intae Jung, Vasily Kokorev, Matilde Mingozzi, Colin Norman, Massimo Ricotti, Jane R. Rigby, Keren Sharon, Eros Vanzella, Brian Welch, Xinfeng Xu, Erik Zackrisson, Adi Zitrin </p>
<p>
JWST spectroscopy has revolutionized our understanding of galaxies in the early universe. Covering wavelengths up to 5.3\,{\rm \mu m}, NIRSpec can detect rest-frame optical emission lines H\alpha out to z = 7 and [O III] to z = 9.5. Observing these lines in more distant galaxies requires longer wavelength spectroscopy with MIRI. Here we present MIRI MRS IFU observations of the lensed galaxy merger MACS0647-JD at z = 10.165. With exposure times of 4.2 hours in each of two bands, we detect H\alpha at 9\sigma, [O III]\,\lambda5008 at 11\sigma, and [O III]\,\lambda4960 at 3\sigma. Combined with previously reported NIRSpec spectroscopy that yields seven emission lines including the auroral line [O III]\,\lambda4363, we present the first direct metallicity measurement of a z &gt; 10 galaxy: 12+{\rm log(O/H)}= 7.79\pm0.09, or 0.13^{+0.02}_{-0.03}\,Z_{\odot}. This is similar to galaxies at z ~ 4 - 9 with direct metallicity measurements, though higher than expected given the high specific star formation rate {\rm log(sSFR / yr^{-1})} = -7.4 \pm 0.3. We further constrain the ionization parameter {\rm log}(U) = -1.9 \pm 0.1, ionizing photon production efficiency {\rm log}(\xi_{\rm ion}) = 25.3\pm0.1, and star formation rate 5.0\pm0.6\,M_{\odot}/{\rm yr} within the past 10\,{\rm Myr}. These observations demonstrate the combined power of JWST NIRSpec and MIRI for studying galaxies in the first 500 million years.
</p>
<p> <b> Published: </b> 2024-04-24T20:53:16Z </p>
<p> <b> Updated: </b> 2024-10-08T13:54:23Z </p>
<p> <b> Comments: </b> 16 pages, 8 figures, accepted for publication in ApJ </p>
<p> <b> PDF: </b> <a href="http://arxiv.org/pdf/2404.16200v4"> http://arxiv.org/pdf/2404.16200v4 </a> </p>

### 58) [2404.04148](http://arxiv.org/abs/2404.04148v2): GA-NIFS: An extremely nitrogen-loud and chemically stratified galaxy at   $z\sim 5.55$

<p> Xihan Ji, Hannah Übler, Roberto Maiolino, Francesco D'Eugenio, Santiago Arribas, Andrew J. Bunker, Stéphane Charlot, Michele Perna, Bruno Rodríguez Del Pino, Torsten Böker, Giovanni Cresci, Mirko Curti, Nimisha Kumari, Isabella Lamperti </p>
<p>
We report the chemical abundance pattern of GS\_3073, a galaxy at z=5.55 which was previously confirmed to host an overmassive active black hole, by leveraging the detection of about 40 emission lines, combining JWST/NIRSpec observations and ground-based (VLT/VIMOS) data. Based on the rest-frame UV emission lines, which trace high-density (~ 10^5~{\rm cm}^{-3}) and highly ionized gas, we derived an abundance ratio of \rm log(N/O) = 0.42^{+0.13}_{-0.10}. At an estimated metallicity of 0.2~Z_{\odot}, this is the most extreme nitrogen-rich object found by JWST thus far. In comparison, the relative carbon abundance derived from the rest-frame UV emission lines is \rm log(C/O) = -0.38^{+0.13}_{-0.11}, which is not significantly higher than those in local galaxies and stars with similar metallicities. We also found potential detection of coronal lines including [FeVII]\lambda 6087 and [FeXIV]\lambda 5303, both blended with [CaV]. We inferred a range of Fe abundances compatible with those in local stars and galaxies. Overall, the chemical abundance pattern of GS\_3073 is compatible with enrichment by super-massive stars with M_* \gtrsim 1000~M_\odot, asymptotic giant branch (AGB) stars, or Wolf-Rayet (WR) stars. Interestingly, when using optical emission lines which trace lower density (~ 10^3~{\rm cm}^{-3}) and lower ionization gas, we found a sub-solar N/O ratio. We interpret the difference in N/O derived from UV lines and optical lines as evidence for a stratified system, where the inner and denser region is both more chemically enriched and more ionized. Taking this luminous, well-studied system as a benchmark, our results suggest that nitrogen loudness in high-z galaxies is confined to the central, dense, and highly ionized region of the galaxies, while the bulk of the galaxies evolves more normally.
</p>
<p> <b> Published: </b> 2024-04-05T14:51:03Z </p>
<p> <b> Updated: </b> 2024-10-15T14:53:04Z </p>
<p> <b> Comments: </b> 28 pages, 15 figures, accepted for publication in MNRAS </p>
<p> <b> PDF: </b> <a href="http://arxiv.org/pdf/2404.04148v2"> http://arxiv.org/pdf/2404.04148v2 </a> </p>

### 59) [2403.12140](http://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12140v2): A unified model for the clustering of quasars and galaxies at   $z\approx6$

<p> Elia Pizzati, Joseph F. Hennawi, Joop Schaye, Matthieu Schaller, Anna-Christina Eilers, Feige Wang, Carlos S. Frenk, Willem Elbers, John C. Helly, Ruari Mackenzie, Jorryt Matthee, Rongmon Bordoloi, Daichi Kashino, Rohan P. Naidu, Minghao Yue </p>
<p>
Recent observations from the EIGER JWST program have measured for the first time the quasar-galaxy cross-correlation function at z\approx6. The auto-correlation function of faint z\approx6 quasars was also recently estimated. These measurements provide key insights into the properties of quasars and galaxies at high redshift and their relation with the host dark matter halos. In this work, we interpret these data building upon an empirical quasar population model that has been applied successfully to quasar clustering and demographic measurements at z\approx2-4. We make use of a new, large-volume N-body simulation with more than a trillion particles, FLAMINGO-10k, to model quasars and galaxies simultaneously. We successfully reproduce observations of z\approx6 quasars and galaxies (i.e., their clustering properties and luminosity functions), and infer key quantities such as their luminosity-halo mass relation, the mass function of their host halos, and their duty cycle/occupation fraction. Our key findings are: (i) quasars reside on average in \approx10^{12.5}\,{\rm M}_\odot halos (corresponding to \approx5\sigma fluctuations in the initial conditions of the linear density field), but the distribution of host halo masses is quite broad; (ii) the duty cycle of (UV-bright) quasar activity is relatively low (\approx1&percnt;); (iii) galaxies (that are bright in [OIII]) live in much smaller halos (\approx10^{10.9}\,{\rm M}_\odot) and have a larger duty cycle (occupation fraction) of \approx13&percnt;. Finally, we focus on the inferred properties of quasars and present a homogeneous analysis of their evolution with redshift. The picture that emerges reveals a strong evolution of the host halo mass and duty cycle of quasars at z\approx2-6, and calls for new investigations of the role of quasar activity across cosmic time.
</p>
<p> <b> Published: </b> 2024-03-18T18:00:17Z </p>
<p> <b> Updated: </b> 2024-10-05T15:11:11Z </p>
<p> <b> Comments: </b> Accepted for publication in MNRAS; 15 pages, 4 figures </p>
<p> <b> PDF: </b> <a href="http://arxiv.org/pdf/2403.12140v2"> http://arxiv.org/pdf/2403.12140v2 </a> </p>

### 60) [2403.03985](http://arxiv.org/abs/2403.03985v2): HELLO project: High-$z$ Evolution of Large and Luminous Objects

<p> Stefan Waterval, Andrea V. Macciò, Tobias Buck, Aura Obreja, Changhyun Cho, Zehao Jin, Benjamin L. Davis, Keri L. Dixon, Xi Kang </p>
<p>
We present the High-z Evolution of Large and Luminous Objects (HELLO) project, a set of ~\!30 high-resolution cosmological simulations aimed to study Milky Way analogues (M_\star~10^{10-11}\,\Msun) at high redshift (z~ [2-4]). Based on the Numerical Investigation of a Hundred Astrophysical Objects (NIHAO), HELLO features an updated scheme for chemical enrichment and the addition of local photoionization feedback. Independently of redshift and mass, our galaxies exhibit a smooth progression along the star formation main sequence until M_\star ~\!10^{10.5}, around which our sample at z ~ 4 remains mostly unperturbed while the most massive galaxies at z ~ 2 reach their peak star formation rate (SFR) and its subsequent decline, due to a mix of gas consumption and stellar feedback. While AGN feedback remains subdominant with respect to stellar feedback for energy deposition, its localised nature likely adds to the physical processes leading to declining SFRs. The phase in which a galaxy in our mass range can be found at a given redshift is set by its gas reservoir and assembly history. Finally, our galaxies are in excellent agreement with various scaling relations observed with the \textit{Hubble Space Telescope} and the \textit{James Webb Space Telescope}, and hence can be used to provide the theoretical framework to interpret current and future observations from these facilities and shed light on the transition from star-forming to quiescent galaxies.
</p>
<p> <b> Published: </b> 2024-03-06T19:00:14Z </p>
<p> <b> Updated: </b> 2024-10-08T08:48:23Z </p>
<p> <b> Comments: </b> 21 pages, 15 figures, 3 tables, published in MNRAS </p>
<p> <b> PDF: </b> <a href="http://arxiv.org/pdf/2403.03985v2"> http://arxiv.org/pdf/2403.03985v2 </a> </p>

### 61) [2402.18636](http://arxiv.org/abs/2402.18636v2): El Gordo needs El Anzuelo: Probing the structure of cluster members with   multi-band extended arcs in JWST data

<p> A. Galan, G. B. Caminha, J. Knollmüller, J. Roth, S. H. Suyu </p>
<p>
Gravitational lensing by galaxy clusters involves hundreds of galaxies over a large redshift range and increases the likelihood of rare phenomena (supernovae, dark substructures, etc.). We present the detailed analysis of \elanz, a prominent quintuply imaged dusty star-forming galaxy (\zs=2.29), mainly lensed by three members of the massive galaxy cluster ACT-CL\,J0102-4915, also known as \elgor (z_{\rm d}=0.87). We leverage JWST/NIRCam images, which contain lensing features that were unseen in previous HST images, using a Bayesian, multi-wavelength, differentiable and GPU-accelerated modeling framework that combines \herculens (lens modeling) and \nifty (field model and inference) software packages. For one of the deflectors, we complement lensing constraints with stellar kinematics measured from VLT/MUSE data. In our lens model, we explicitly include the mass distribution of the cluster, locally corrected by a constant shear field. We find that the two main deflectors (L1 and L2) have logarithmic mass density slopes steeper than isothermal, with \gamma_{\rm L1} = 2.23\pm0.05 and \gamma_{\rm L2} = 2.21\pm0.04. We argue that such steep density profiles can arise due to tidally truncated mass distributions, which we probe thanks to the cluster lensing boost and the strong asymmetry of the lensing configuration. Moreover, our three-dimensional source model captures most of the surface brightness of the lensed galaxy, revealing a clump with a maximum diameter of 400 parsecs at the source redshift, visible at wavelengths \lambda_{\rm rest}\gtrsim0.6 \mum. Finally, we caution on using point-like features within extended arcs to constrain galaxy-scale lens models before securing them with extended arc modeling.
</p>
<p> <b> Published: </b> 2024-02-28T19:00:01Z </p>
<p> <b> Updated: </b> 2024-10-09T09:47:54Z </p>
<p> <b> Comments: </b> 27 pages, published in Astronomy & Astrophysics (September 2024) </p>
<p> <b> PDF: </b> <a href="http://arxiv.org/pdf/2402.18636v2"> http://arxiv.org/pdf/2402.18636v2 </a> </p>

### 62) [2307.10302](http://arxiv.org/abs/2307.10302v2): Enhanced Early Galaxy Formation in JWST from Axion Dark Matter?

<p> Simeon Bird, Chia-Feng Chang, Yanou Cui, Daneng Yang </p>
<p>
We demonstrate that enhanced early galaxy formation can generically arise in axion-like particle (ALP) dark matter (DM) models with a delayed onset of axion field oscillation. In these models, the formation of localized massive objects enhances structure formation, potentially addressing the excess recently observed by the James Webb Space Telescope (JWST), while remaining consistent with existing constraints. We identify viable parameter space with the ALP mass in the range of 10^{-22}~{\rm eV}&lt;m_a&lt;10^{-19}~\rm eV. In addition, we show that the ALP parameter regions of interest can lead to intriguing complementary signatures in the small-scale structure of DM halos and existing experimental searches for ALPs.
</p>
<p> <b> Published: </b> 2023-07-18T18:00:05Z </p>
<p> <b> Updated: </b> 2024-10-14T11:45:14Z </p>
<p> <b> Comments: </b> 6 pages, 4 figures </p>
<p> <b> PDF: </b> <a href="http://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.10302v2"> http://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.10302v2 </a> </p>

### 63) [2305.18518](http://arxiv.org/abs/2305.18518v2): JADES + JEMS: A Detailed Look at the Buildup of Central Stellar Cores   and Suppression of Star Formation in Galaxies at Redshifts 3 < z < 4.5

<p> Zhiyuan Ji, Christina C. Williams, Sandro Tacchella, Katherine A. Suess, William M. Baker, Stacey Alberts, Andrew J. Bunker, Benjamin D. Johnson, Brant Robertson, Fengwu Sun, Daniel J. Eisenstein, Marcia Rieke, Michael V. Maseda, Kevin Hainline, Ryan Hausen, George Rieke, Christopher N. A. Willmer, Eiichi Egami, Irene Shivaei, Stefano Carniani, Stephane Charlot, Jacopo Chevallard, Emma Curtis-Lake, Tobias J. Looser, Roberto Maiolino, Chris Willott, Zuyi Chen, Jakob M. Helton, Jianwei Lyu, Erica Nelson, Rachana Bhatawdekar, Kristan Boyett, Lester Sandles </p>
<p>
We present a spatially resolved study of stellar populations in 6 galaxies with stellar masses M_*~10^{10}M_\odot at z~3.7 using 14-filter JWST/NIRCam imaging from the JADES and JEMS surveys. The 6 galaxies are visually selected to have clumpy substructures with distinct colors over rest-frame 3600-4100\r{A}, including a red, dominant stellar core that is close to their stellar-light centroids. With 23-filter photometry from HST to JWST, we measure the stellar-population properties of individual structural components via SED fitting using Prospector. We find that the central stellar cores are \gtrsim2 times more massive than the Toomre mass, indicating they may not form via single in-situ fragmentation. The stellar cores have stellar ages of 0.4-0.7 Gyr that are similar to the timescale of clump inward migration due to dynamical friction, suggesting that they likely instead formed through the coalescence of giant stellar clumps. While they have not yet quenched, the 6 galaxies are below the star-forming main sequence by 0.2-0.7 dex. Within each galaxy, we find that the specific star formation rate is lower in the central stellar core, and the stellar-mass surface density of the core is already similar to quenched galaxies of the same masses and redshifts. Meanwhile, the stellar ages of the cores are either comparable to or younger than the extended, smooth parts of the galaxies. Our findings are consistent with model predictions of the gas-rich compaction scenario for the buildup of galaxies' central regions at high redshifts. We are likely witnessing the coeval formation of dense central cores, along with the onset of galaxy-wide quenching at z&gt;3.
</p>
<p> <b> Published: </b> 2023-05-29T18:00:01Z </p>
<p> <b> Updated: </b> 2024-10-09T16:22:57Z </p>
<p> <b> Comments: </b> 34 pages, 18 figures, ApJ in press </p>
<p> <b> PDF: </b> <a href="http://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.18518v2"> http://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.18518v2 </a> </p>

### 64) [2207.02143](http://arxiv.org/abs/2207.02143v3): Dark Energy Black Holes with Intermediate Masses at High Redshifts: an   earlier generation of Quasars and observations

<p> Anupam Singh </p>
<p>
Dark Energy is the largest fraction of the energy density of our Universe - yet it remains one of the enduring enigmas of our times. Here we show that Dark Energy can be used to solve 2 tantalizing mysteries of the observable universe. We build on existing models of Dark Energy linked to neutrino masses. In these models Dark Energy can undergo Phase Transitions and form Black Holes. Here we look at the implications of the family structure of neutrinos for the phase transitions in dark energy and associated peaks in black hole formation. It has been previously shown that one of these peaks in Black Hole formation is associated with the observed peak in Quasar formation. Here, we predict that there will also be an earlier peak in the Dark Energy Black Holes at high redshifts. These Dark Energy Black Holes formed at high redshifts are Intermediate Mass Black Holes (IMBHs).These Dark Energy Black Holes at large redshift can help explain both the EDGES observations and the observations of large Supermassive Black Holes (SMBHs) at redshifts z ~ 7. The existence of an earlier phase of Dark Energy Black Holes take care of some current challenges to theory implied by existing astronomical data and also helps us look for these Dark Energy Black Holes at high redshifts as predicted here through targeted searches for these Black Holes at the redshifts z ~ 18. There is a slight dependence of the location of the peak on the lightest neutrino mass - so the peak may be located at a slightly lower value of the redshift. This may actually enable a measurement of the lightest neutrino mass. Finding these Dark Energy Black Holes of Intermediate Mass should be within the reach of upcoming observations - particularly with the James Webb Space Telescope - but perhaps also through the use of other innovative techniques focusing specifically on the redshifts around z ~ 18.
</p>
<p> <b> Published: </b> 2022-07-04T05:04:17Z </p>
<p> <b> Updated: </b> 2024-10-16T09:57:35Z </p>
<p> <b> Comments: </b> As embargo period is over - this version corresponds to the final   published version </p>
<p> <b> PDF: </b> <a href="http://arxiv.org/pdf/2207.02143v3"> http://arxiv.org/pdf/2207.02143v3 </a> </p>

